ASA053\
Wishart Variate Generator {#asa053-wishart-variate-generator align="center"}
=========================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA053** is a C++ library which returns samples from the Wishart
distribution.

As far as I can tell, there are two mistakes in the printed text of the
algorithm; one involves incorrectly determining the number of degrees of
freedom for the ChiSquared distribution; the other omits an absolute
value sign when inverting the Wilson-Hilferty formula, so that square
roots of negative values are occasionally requested. These mistakes have
been corrected here.

Source code for many Applied Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files made available on this web page are
distributed under [the GNU LGPL license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA053** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa053/asa053.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa053/asa053.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa053/asa053.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa053/asa053.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa053/asa053.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[WISHART](../../master/wishart/wishart.md), a C++ library which
produces sample matrices from the Wishart or Bartlett distributions,
useful for sampling random covariance matrices.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Stanley Sawyer,\
    Wishart Distributions and Inverse-Wishart Sampling,\
    Washington University,\
    30 April 2007, 12 pages.
2.  William Smith, Ronald Hocking,\
    Algorithm AS 53, Wishart Variate Generator,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 21, Number 3, pages 341-345, 1972.

### Original Source Code: {#original-source-code align="center"}

-   [asa053\_original.f](asa053_original.f), the original text of the
    source code. Note that the line "DF = N - I + 1" is believed (by me)
    to be incorrect, and is replaced in the present version by "DF =
    NP - I + 1".

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa053.cpp](asa053.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa053.hpp](asa053.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa053\_prb.cpp](asa053_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa053\_prb\_output.txt](asa053_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **R8\_UNIFORM\_01** returns a unit pseudorandom R8.
-   **R8PP\_PRINT** prints an R8PP matrix.
-   **R8PP\_PRINT\_SOME** prints some of an R8PP matrix.
-   **R8UTP\_PRINT** prints an R8UTP matrix.
-   **R8UTP\_PRINT\_SOME** prints some of an R8UTP matrix.
-   **RNORM** returns two independent standard random normal deviates.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.
-   **WSHRT** returns a random Wishart variate.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 16 April 2014.*
