SPHERE\_GRID\
Grids on a Sphere {#sphere_grid-grids-on-a-sphere align="center"}
=================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**SPHERE\_GRID** is a C++ library which constructs a grid of points on
the surface of the unit sphere in 3D.

A grid on a sphere may mean a set of points, or a set of points and
lines that connect them, or a set of points, lines that connect them,
and the faces that are bounded by those lines.

A grid may be desired which simply organizes areas. In that case,
something like the latitude and longitude lines on a globe may be
sufficient, even though "evenly spaced" latitude and longitude lines
result in grid cells that are close to rectangular near the equator, but
become more asymmetric near the poles.

A grid may also be desired for sampling, that is, for choosing a set of
points that are well spread across the sphere. A simple Monte Carlo
approach can be used, although this means that the data is only well
spread out in the long view; there may be local clusters and gaps.

Other grids are generated by drawing a spiral on the surface of the
sphere, and choosing points at regular spacings along that line, or by
projecting an icosahedron onto the surface of the sphere, which divides
the surface into 20 congruent spherical triangles, and then dealing with
the simpler issue of choosing points from the triangles.

The test program uses GNUPLOT to make images of some of the grids.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**SPHERE\_GRID** is available in [a C
version](../../c_src/sphere_grid/sphere_grid.md) and [a C++
version](../../master/sphere_grid/sphere_grid.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/sphere_grid/sphere_grid.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/sphere_grid/sphere_grid.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/sphere_grid/sphere_grid.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[CUBE\_GRID](../../master/cube_grid/cube_grid.md), a C++ library
which computes a grid of points over the interior of a cube in 3D.

[DISK\_GRID](../../master/disk_grid/disk_grid.md), a C++ library
which computes a grid of points over the interior of a disk in 2D.

[GEOMETRY](../../master/geometry/geometry.md), a C++ library which
performs geometric calculations in 2, 3 and N dimensional space.

[GNUPLOT](../../master/gnuplot/gnuplot.md), C++ programs which
illustrate how a program can write data and command files so that
gnuplot can create plots of the program results.

[HYPERCUBE\_GRID](../../master/hypercube_grid/hypercube_grid.md), a
C++ library which computes a grid of points over the interior of a
hypercube in M dimensions.

[LINE\_GRID](../../master/line_grid/line_grid.md), a C++ library
which computes a grid of points over the interior of a line segment in
1D.

[POLYGON\_GRID](../../master/polygon_grid/polygon_grid.md), a C++
library which generates a grid of points over the interior of a polygon
in 2D.

[PYRAMID\_GRID](../../master/pyramid_grid/pyramid_grid.md), a C++
library which computes a grid of points over the interior of the unit
pyramid in 3D;

[SIMPLEX\_GRID](../../master/simplex_grid/simplex_grid.md), a C++
library which generates a grid of points over the interior of a simplex
in M dimensions.

[SPHERE\_FIBONACCI\_GRID](../../master/sphere_fibonacci_grid/sphere_fibonacci_grid.md),
a C++ library which uses a Fibonacci spiral to create a grid of points
on the surface of the unit sphere in 3D.

[SPHERE\_LLQ\_GRID](../../master/sphere_llq_grid/sphere_llq_grid.md),
a C++ library which uses longitudes and latitudes to create grids of
points, lines, and quadrilaterals on the surface of the unit sphere in
3D.

[SPHERE\_LLT\_GRID](../../master/sphere_llt_grid/sphere_llt_grid.md),
a C++ library which uses longitudes and latitudes to create grids of
points, lines, and triangles on the surface of the unit sphere in 3D.

[SQUARE\_GRID](../../master/square_grid/square_grid.md), a C++
library which computes a grid of points over the interior of a square in
2D.

[TRIANGLE\_GRID](../../master/triangle_grid/triangle_grid.md), a C++
library which computes a grid of points over the interior of a triangle
in 2D.

[WEDGE\_GRID](../../master/wedge_grid/wedge_grid.md), a C++ library
which computes a grid of points over the interior of the unit wedge in
3D.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Edward Saff, Arno Kuijlaars,\
    Distributing Many Points on a Sphere,\
    The Mathematical Intelligencer,\
    Volume 19, Number 1, 1997, pages 5-11.
2.  Richard Swinbank, James Purser,\
    Fibonacci grids: A novel approach to global modelling,\
    Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society,\
    Volume 132, Number 619, July 2006 Part B, pages 1769-1793.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [sphere\_grid.cpp](sphere_grid.cpp), the source code.
-   [sphere\_grid.hpp](sphere_grid.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [sphere\_grid\_prb.cpp](sphere_grid_prb.cpp), a sample calling
    program.
-   [sphere\_grid\_prb\_output.txt](sphere_grid_prb_output.txt), the
    output file.

To see the XYZ data files and images of the sphere grids created by this
example program, go to [the SPHERE\_GRID dataset
directory](../../datasets/sphere_grid/sphere_grid.md).

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ARC\_COSINE** computes the arc cosine function, with argument
    truncation.
-   **ARC\_SINE** computes the arc sine function, with argument
    truncation.
-   **ATAN4** computes the inverse tangent of the ratio Y / X.
-   **I4\_MAX** returns the maximum of two I4's.
-   **I4\_MIN** returns the minimum of two I4's.
-   **I4\_POWER** returns the value of I\^J.
-   **I4\_TO\_STRING** converts an I4 to a C++ string.
-   **I4MAT\_TRANSPOSE\_PRINT** prints an I4MAT, transposed.
-   **I4MAT\_TRANSPOSE\_PRINT\_SOME** prints some of an I4MAT,
    transposed.
-   **I4VEC\_COPY** copies an I4VEC.
-   **ICOS\_SHAPE** describes a icosahedron.
-   **ICOS\_NUM** gives "sizes" for an icosahedron.
-   **R8\_ABS** returns the absolute value of an R8.
-   **R8\_MODP** returns the nonnegative remainder of R8 division.
-   **R8\_UNIFORM\_01** returns a unit pseudorandom R8.
-   **R8MAT\_TRANSPOSE\_PRINT** prints an R8MAT, transposed.
-   **R8MAT\_TRANSPOSE\_PRINT\_SOME** prints some of an R8MAT,
    transposed.
-   **R8MAT\_WRITE** writes an R8MAT file.
-   **R8VEC\_COPY** copies an R8VEC.
-   **R8VEC\_DIFF\_NORM** returns the L2 norm of the difference of
    R8VEC's.
-   **R8VEC\_DOT\_PRODUCT** computes the dot product of a pair of
    R8VEC's.
-   **R8VEC\_EQ** is true if every pair of entries in two R8VEC's is
    equal.
-   **R8VEC\_NORM** returns the L2 norm of an R8VEC.
-   **R8VEC\_POLARIZE** decomposes an R8VEC into normal and parallel
    components.
-   **R8VEC\_PRINT** prints an R8VEC.
-   **SPHERE\_CUBED\_IJK\_TO\_XYZ:** cubed sphere IJK to XYZ
    coordinates.
-   **SPHERE\_CUBED\_LINE\_NUM** counts lines on a cubed sphere grid.
-   **SPHERE\_CUBED\_LINES** computes the lines on a cubed sphere grid.
-   **SPHERE\_CUBED\_POINTS** computes the points on a cubed sphere
    grid.
-   **SPHERE\_CUBED\_POINTS\_FACE:** points on one face of a cubed
    sphere grid.
-   **SPHERE\_CUBED\_POINT\_NUM** counts the points on a cubed sphere
    grid.
-   **SPHERE\_DISTANCE\_XYZ** computes great circle distances on a
    sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_FIBONACCI\_POINTS** computes sphere points on a Fibonacci
    spiral.
-   **SPHERE\_GRID\_Q4:** rectangular grid on a sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_GRID\_T3** produces a triangle grid on a sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_ICOS\_EDGE\_NUM** sizes an icosahedral grid on a sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_ICOS\_FACE\_NUM** sizes an icosahedral grid on a sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_ICOS\_POINT\_NUM** sizes an icosahedral grid on a sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_ICOS1\_POINTS** returns icosahedral grid points on a
    sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_ICOS2\_POINTS** returns icosahedral grid points on a
    sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_LINE\_PROJECT** projects a line onto an implicit sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_LL\_LINES** produces lines from a latitude/longitude grid.
-   **SPHERE\_LL\_LINE\_NUM** counts lines for a latitude/longitude
    grid.
-   **SPHERE\_LL\_POINTS** produces points on a latitude/longitude grid.
-   **SPHERE\_LL\_POINT\_NUM** counts points for a latitude/longitude
    grid.
-   **SPHERE\_LLQ\_LINES:** latitude/longitude quadrilateral grid lines.
-   **SPHERE\_LLQ\_LINE\_NUM** counts lines for a latitude/longitude
    quadrilateral grid.
-   **SPHERE\_SPIRALPOINTS** produces spiral points on an implicit
    sphere.
-   **SPHERE\_UNIT\_SAMPLE** picks a random point on the unit sphere.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 21 October 2013.*
