ASA241\
Inverse of Normal CDF {#asa241-inverse-of-normal-cdf align="center"}
=====================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA241** is a C++ library which computes the inverse of the Normal
Cumulative Density Function.

ASA241 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 241. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

The library includes two routines, R4\_NORMAL\_01\_CDF\_INVERSE, and
R8\_NORMAL\_01\_CDF\_INVERSE, suitable for single precision real or
double precision real arithmetic calculations.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA241** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa241/asa241.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa241/asa241.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa241/asa241.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa241/asa241.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa241/asa241.html).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA111](../../cpp_src/asa111/asa111.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the Normal distribution.

[DCDFLIB](../../cpp_src/dcdflib/dcdflib.html), a C++ library which
contains routines for evaluating and inverting the normal CDF, and many
other distributions.

[PROB](../../cpp_src/prob/prob.html), a C++ library which contains
routines for evaluating and inverting the normal CDF, and many other
distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which contains routines that store selected values of the normal
CDF, and many other statistical distributions.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Michael Wichura,\
    The Percentage Points of the Normal Distribution,\
    Algorithm AS 241,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 37, Number 3, pages 477-484, 1988.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa241.cpp](asa241.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa241.hpp](asa241.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa241\_prb.cpp](asa241_prb.cpp), a sample problem.
-   [asa241\_prb\_output.txt](asa241_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **NORMAL\_01\_CDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the Normal01 CDF.
-   **R4\_HUGE** returns a "huge" R4.
-   **R4\_NORMAL\_01\_CDF\_INVERSE** inverts the standard normal CDF.
-   **R4POLY\_VALUE** evaluates a real polynomial.
-   **R8\_HUGE** returns a "huge" R8.
-   **R8\_NORMAL\_01\_CDF\_INVERSE** inverts the standard normal CDF.
-   **R8POLY\_VALUE** evaluates a double precision polynomial.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 19 March 2010.*
