ASA111\
Percentage Points of the Normal Distribution {#asa111-percentage-points-of-the-normal-distribution align="center"}
============================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA111** is a C++ library which computes the percentage points of the
normal distribution, by Beasley and Springer.

ASA111 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 111. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA111** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa111/asa111.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa111/asa111.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa111/asa111.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa111/asa111.html) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa111/asa111.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA066](../../cpp_src/asa066/asa066.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the normal distribution.

[ASA241](../../cpp_src/asa241/asa241.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the Normal distribution.

[DCDFLIB](../../cpp_src/dcdflib/dcdflib.html), a C++ library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../cpp_src/gsl/gsl.html), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[NORMAL](../../cpp_src/normal/normal.html), a C++ library which samples
the normal distribution.

[PROB](../../cpp_src/prob/prob.html), a C++ library which evaluates and
inverts a number of probabilistic distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[UNIFORM](../../cpp_src/uniform/uniform.html), a C++ library which
samples the uniform distribution.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by JD Beasley, SG Springer; C++ version by
John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  JD Beasley, SG Springer,\
    Algorithm AS 111: The Percentage Points of the Normal Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 26, Number 1, 1977, pages 118-121.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa111.cpp](asa111.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa111.hpp](asa111.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa111\_prb.cpp](asa111_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa111\_prb\_output.txt](asa111_prb_output.txt), the output from a
    run of the sample program.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **NORMAL\_01\_CDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the Normal 01
    CDF.
-   **PPND** produces the normal deviate value corresponding to lower
    tail area = P.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 21 January 2008.*
