ASA006\
Cholesky Factor of a Positive Definite Symmetric Matrix {#asa006-cholesky-factor-of-a-positive-definite-symmetric-matrix align="center"}
=======================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA006** is a C++ library which computes the Cholesky factor of a
positive definite symmetric matrix.

ASA006 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 6. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

If **A** is a positive definite symmetric matrix, then there is an upper
triangular matrix **U** with the property that

> **A = U' \* U**

The matrix **U** is known as the *Cholesky factor* of **A**, and can be
used to easily solve linear systems involving **A** or compute the
inverse of **A**.

The algorithm implemented here uses a compressed storage for both the
matrix **A** and the factor **U**. This saves some storage, but can make
computations a little awkward.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA006** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa006/asa006.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa006/asa006.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa006/asa006.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa006/asa006.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa006/asa006.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA007](../../master/asa007/asa007.md), a C++ library which computes
the inverse of a symmetric positive definite matrix, and uses a version
of ASA006 for for Cholesky factorization.

[ASA047](../../master/asa047/asa047.md), a C++ library which
implements the Nelder-Mead minimization algorithm, and uses a version of
ASA006 for Cholesky factorization.

[LAPACK\_EXAMPLES](../../f77_src/lapack_examples/lapack_examples.md),
a FORTRAN77 program which demonstrates the use of the LAPACK linear
algebra library.

[LINPACK\_D](../../master/linpack_d/linpack_d.md), a C++ library
which includes routines for Cholesky factorization.

[NL2SOL](../../f77_src/nl2sol/nl2sol.md), a FORTRAN77 library which
solves nonlinear least squares problems, and includes routines for
Cholesky factorization.

[PPPACK](../../f77_src/pppack/pppack.md), a FORTRAN77 library which
carries out piecewise polynomial interpolation and includes routines for
Cholesky factorization.

[TOEPLITZ\_CHOLESKY](../../master/toeplitz_cholesky/toeplitz_cholesky.md),
a C++ library which computes the Cholesky factorization of a nonnegative
definite symmetric Toeplitz matrix.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  PR Freeman,\
    Remark AS R44: A Remark on AS 6 and AS7: Triangular decomposition of
    a symmetric matrix and Inversion of a positive semi-definite
    symmetric matrix,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 31, Number 3, 1982, pages 336-339.
2.  Michael Healy,\
    Algorithm AS 6: Triangular decomposition of a symmetric matrix,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 17, Number 2, 1968, pages 195-197.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa006.cpp](asa006.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa006.hpp](asa006.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa006\_prb.cpp](asa006_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa006\_prb\_output.txt](asa006_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **CHOLESKY** computes the Cholesky factorization of a PDS matrix.
-   **SUBCHL** computes the Cholesky factorization of a (subset of a)
    PDS matrix.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 14 December 2011.*
