VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_ADVANCED\
The van der Corput Quasi Monte Carlo (QMC) sequence {#van_der_corput_advanced-the-van-der-corput-quasi-monte-carlo-qmc-sequence align="center"}
===================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_ADVANCED** is a C++ library which computes the van
der Corput Quasi Monte Carlo (QMC) sequence, using an advanced
interface.

VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_ADVANCED includes several subroutines to make it easy
to manipulate this computation, to compute the next N entries, to
compute a particular entry, or to restart the sequence at a particular
point.

The NDIM-dimensional Halton sequence is derived from the 1-dimensional
van der Corput sequence by using a set of different (usually distinct
prime) bases for each dimension, and the Hammersley sequence is derived
in almost the same way.

The van der Corput sequence is often used to generate a "subrandom"
sequence of points which have a better covering property than
pseudorandom points.

The van der Corput sequence generates a sequence of points in \[0,1\]
which (theoretically) never repeats. Except for SEED = 0, the elements
of the van der Corput sequence are strictly between 0 and 1.

The van der Corput sequence writes an integer in a given base B, and
then its digits are "reflected" about the decimal point. This maps the
numbers from 1 to N into a set of numbers in \[0,1\], which are
especially nicely distributed if N is one less than a power of the base.

Hammersley suggested generating a set of N nicely distributed points in
two dimensions by setting the first component of the Ith point to I/N,
and the second to the van der Corput value of I in base 2.

Halton suggested that in many cases, you might not know the number of
points you were generating, so Hammersley's formulation was not ideal.
Instead, he suggested that to generate a nicely distributed sequence of
points in M dimensions, you simply choose the first M primes, P(1:M),
and then for the J-th component of the I-th point in the sequence, you
compute the van der Corput value of I in base P(J).

Thus, to generate a Halton sequence in a 2 dimensional space, it is
typical practice to generate a pair of van der Corput sequences, the
first with prime base 2, the second with prime base 3. Similarly, by
using the first K primes, a suitable sequence in K-dimensional space can
be generated.

The generation is quite simple. Given an integer SEED, the expansion of
SEED in base BASE is generated. Then, essentially, the result R is
generated by writing a decimal point followed by the digits of the
expansion of SEED, in reverse order. This decimal value is actually
still in base BASE, so it must be properly interpreted to generate a
usable value.

Here is an example in base 2:

  SEED (decimal)   SEED (binary)   VDC (binary)   VDC (decimal)
  ---------------- --------------- -------------- ---------------
  0                0               .0             0.0
  1                1               .1             0.5
  2                10              .01            0.25
  3                11              .11            0.75
  4                100             .001           0.125
  5                101             .101           0.625
  6                110             .011           0.375
  7                111             .111           0.875
  8                1000            .0001          0.0625

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_ADVANCED** is available in [a C++
version](../../master/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.md) and [a
FORTRAN90 version](../../f_src/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.md) and
[a MATLAB version](../../m_src/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[BOX\_BEHNKEN](../../master/box_behnken/box_behnken.md), a C++
library which computes a Box-Behnken design, that is, a set of arguments
to sample the behavior of a function of multiple parameters;

[CVT](../../master/cvt/cvt.md), a C++ library which computes points
in a Centroidal Voronoi Tessellation.

[FAURE](../../master/faure/faure.md), a C++ library which computes
Faure sequences.

[GRID](../../master/grid/grid.md), a C++ library which computes
points on a grid.

[HALTON](../../master/halton/halton.md), a C++ library which computes
Halton sequences.

[HAMMERSLEY](../../master/hammersley/hammersley.md), a C++ library
which computes Hammersley sequences.

[HEX\_GRID](../../master/hex_grid/hex_grid.md), a C++ library which
computes sets of points in a 2D hexagonal grid.

[IHS](../../master/ihs/ihs.md), a C++ library which computes improved
Latin Hypercube datasets.

[LATIN\_CENTER](../../master/latin_center/latin_center.md), a C++
library which computes Latin square data choosing the center value.

[LATIN\_EDGE](../../master/latin_edge/latin_edge.md), a C++ library
which computes Latin square data choosing the edge value.

[LATIN\_RANDOM](../../master/latin_random/latin_random.md), a C++
library which computes Latin square data choosing a random value in the
square.

[NIEDERREITER2](../../master/niederreiter2/niederreiter2.md), a C++
library which computes Niederreiter sequences with base 2.

[NORMAL](../../master/normal/normal.md), a C++ library which computes
a sequence of pseudorandom normally distributed values.

[SEQUENCE\_STREAK\_DISPLAY](../../m_src/sequence_streak_display/sequence_streak_display.md),
a MATLAB program which makes a "streak file" of a van der Corput
sequence.

[SOBOL](../../master/sobol/sobol.md), a C++ library which computes
Sobol sequences.

[UNIFORM](../../master/uniform/uniform.md), a C++ library which
computes uniform random values.

[VAN\_DER\_CORPUT](../../master/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.md), a
C++ library which computes elements of a 1D van der Corput Quasi Monte
Carlo (QMC) sequence using a simple interface.

[VAN\_DER\_CORPUT](../../datasets/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.md), a
dataset directory which contains datasets of van der Corput sequences.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  John Halton,\
    On the efficiency of certain quasi-random sequences of points in
    evaluating multi-dimensional integrals,\
    Numerische Mathematik,\
    Volume 2, pages 84-90, 1960.
2.  John Hammersley,\
    Monte Carlo methods for solving multivariable problems,\
    Proceedings of the New York Academy of Science,\
    Volume 86, pages 844-874, 1960.
3.  Johannes van der Corput,\
    Verteilungsfunktionen I & II,\
    Nederl. Akad. Wetensch. Proc.,\
    Volume 38, 1935, pages 813-820, pages 1058-1066.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [van\_der\_corput\_advanced.cpp](van_der_corput_advanced.cpp), the
    source code.
-   [van\_der\_corput\_advanced.hpp](van_der_corput_advanced.hpp), the
    include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [van\_der\_corput\_advanced\_prb.cpp](van_der_corput_advanced_prb.cpp),
    a sample problem.
-   [van\_der\_corput\_advanced\_prb\_output.txt](van_der_corput_advanced_prb_output.txt),
    the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **CIRCLE\_UNIT\_VAN\_DER\_CORPUT** picks a van der Corput point on
    the unit circle.
-   **GET\_SEED** returns a random seed for the random number generator.
-   **I4\_LOG\_2** returns the integer part of the logarithm base 2 of
    an I4.
-   **I4\_TO\_VAN\_DER\_CORPUT** computes an element of a van der Corput
    sequence.
-   **I4\_TO\_VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_SEQUENCE:** next N elements of a van der
    Corput sequence.
-   **R8\_EPSILON** returns the R8 round off unit.
-   **R8MAT\_WRITE** writes an R8MAT file.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.
-   **VAN\_DER\_CORPUT** computes the next element in the van der Corput
    sequence.
-   **VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_BASE\_GET** gets the base for a van der Corput
    sequence.
-   **VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_BASE\_SET** sets the base for a van der Corput
    sequence.
-   **VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_SEED\_GET** gets the "seed" for the van der
    Corput sequence.
-   **VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_SEED\_SET** sets the "seed" for the van der
    Corput sequence.
-   **VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_SEQUENCE:** next N elements in the van der
    Corput sequence.
-   **VDC\_NUMERATOR\_SEQUENCE:** van der Corput numerator sequence
    base 2.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 09 August 2016.*
