VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_DATASET\
Generate van der Corput Datasets {#van_der_corput_dataset-generate-van-der-corput-datasets align="center"}
================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_DATASET** is a C++ program which creates a van der
Corput sequence dataset and writes it to a file.

The program is interactive, and allows the user to choose the parameters
that define the sequence.

The NDIM-dimensional Halton sequence is derived from the 1-dimensional
van der Corput sequence by using a set of different (usually distinct
prime) bases for each dimension, and the Hammersley sequence is derived
in almost the same way.

The van der Corput sequence is often used to generate a "subrandom"
sequence of points which have a better covering property than
pseudorandom points.

The van der Corput sequence generates a sequence of points in \[0,1\]
which (theoretically) never repeats. Except for SEED = 0, the elements
of the van der Corput sequence are strictly between 0 and 1.

The van der Corput sequence writes an integer in a given base B, and
then its digits are "reflected" about the decimal point. This maps the
numbers from 1 to N into a set of numbers in \[0,1\], which are
especially nicely distributed if N is one less than a power of the base.

Hammersley suggested generating a set of N nicely distributed points in
two dimensions by setting the first component of the Ith point to I/N,
and the second to the van der Corput value of I in base 2.

Halton suggested that in many cases, you might not know the number of
points you were generating, so Hammersley's formulation was not ideal.
Instead, he suggested that to generate a nicely distributed sequence of
points in M dimensions, you simply choose the first M primes, P(1:M),
and then for the J-th component of the I-th point in the sequence, you
compute the van der Corput value of I in base P(J).

Thus, to generate a Halton sequence in a 2 dimensional space, it is
typical practice to generate a pair of van der Corput sequences, the
first with prime base 2, the second with prime base 3. Similarly, by
using the first K primes, a suitable sequence in K-dimensional space can
be generated.

The generation is quite simple. Given an integer SEED, the expansion of
SEED in base BASE is generated. Then, essentially, the result R is
generated by writing a decimal point followed by the digits of the
expansion of SEED, in reverse order. This decimal value is actually
still in base BASE, so it must be properly interpreted to generate a
usable value.

Here is an example in base 2:

  SEED (decimal)   SEED (binary)   VDC (binary)   VDC (decimal)
  ---------------- --------------- -------------- ---------------
  0                0               .0             0.0
  1                1               .1             0.5
  2                10              .01            0.25
  3                11              .11            0.75
  4                100             .001           0.125
  5                101             .101           0.625
  6                110             .011           0.375
  7                111             .111           0.875
  8                1000            .0001          0.0625

### Usage: {#usage align="center"}

> **van\_der\_corput\_dataset** *base* *seed* *n*

where

-   *base* is the base of the sequence;
-   -   *seed* is the index of the first element to be computed;
-   *n* is the number of points to generate.

The program generates the data and writes it to the file
**van\_der\_corput\_*base*\_*seed*\_*n*.txt**.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_DATASET** is available in [a C++
version](../../cpp_src/van_der_corput_dataset/van_der_corput_dataset.html)
and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/van_der_corput_dataset/van_der_corput_dataset.html)
and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/van_der_corput_dataset/van_der_corput_dataset.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[FAURE\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/faure_dataset/faure_dataset.html), a C++
program which creates a Faure quasirandom dataset;

[GRID\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/grid_dataset/grid_dataset.html), a C++
program which creates a grid sequence and writes it to a file.

[LATIN\_CENTER\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/latin_center_dataset/latin_center_dataset.html),
a C++ program which creates a Latin Center Hypercube dataset;

[LATIN\_EDGE\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/latin_edge_dataset/latin_edge_dataset.html),
a C++ program which creates a Latin Edge Hypercube dataset;

[LATIN\_RANDOM\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/latin_random_dataset/latin_random_dataset.html),
a C++ program which creates a Latin Random Hypercube dataset;

[NIEDERREITER2\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/niederreiter2_dataset/niederreiter2_dataset.html),
a C++ program which creates a Niederreiter quasirandom dataset with base
2;

[NORMAL\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/normal_dataset/normal_dataset.html), a
C++ program which generates a dataset of multivariate normal
pseudorandom values and writes them to a file.

[SOBOL\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/sobol_dataset/sobol_dataset.html), a C++
program which computes a Sobol quasirandom sequence and writes it to a
file.

[UNIFORM\_DATASET](../../cpp_src/uniform_dataset/uniform_dataset.html),
a C++ program which generates a dataset of uniform pseudorandom values
and writes them to a file.

[VAN\_DER\_CORPUT](../../cpp_src/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.html), a
C++ library which computes elements of a van der Corput sequence.

[VAN\_DER\_CORPUT](../../datasets/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.html), a
dataset directory which contains van der Corput sequences.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Johannes van der Corput,\
    Verteilungsfunktionen I & II,\
    Nederl. Akad. Wetensch. Proc.,\
    Volume 38, 1935, pages 813-820, pages 1058-1066.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [van\_der\_corput\_dataset.cpp](van_der_corput_dataset.cpp), the
    source code.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [van\_der\_corput\_2\_0\_10.txt](../../datasets/van_der_corput/van_der_corput_2_0_10.txt),
    the results for **van\_der\_corput\_dataset 2 0 10**.
-   [van\_der\_corput\_2\_5\_10.txt](../../datasets/van_der_corput/van_der_corput_2_5_10.txt),
    the results for **van\_der\_corput\_dataset 2 5 10**.
-   [van\_der\_corput\_3\_0\_10.txt](../../datasets/van_der_corput/van_der_corput_3_0_10.txt),
    the results for **van\_der\_corput\_dataset 3 0 10**.
-   [van\_der\_corput\_10\_0\_10.txt](../../datasets/van_der_corput/van_der_corput_10_0_10.txt),
    the results for **van\_der\_corput\_dataset 10 0 10**.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **MAIN** is the main program for VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_DATASET.
-   **I4\_TO\_VAN\_DER\_CORPUT\_SEQUENCE:** next N elements of a van der
    Corput sequence.
-   **R8MAT\_WRITE** writes an R8MAT file.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 31 August 2005.*
