ASA183\
Wichman-Hill Random Number Generator {#asa183-wichman-hill-random-number-generator align="center"}
====================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA183** is a C++ library which implements a pseudorandom number
generator, by Wichman and Hill.

ASA183 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 183. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA183** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa183/asa183.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa183/asa183.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa183/asa183.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa183/asa183.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa183/asa183.html) and [a Python
version](../../py_src/asa183/asa183.html).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[CPP\_RANDOM](../../cpp_src/cpp_random/cpp_random.html), C++ programs
which illustrate the use of the C++ random number generator routines.

[HALTON](../../cpp_src/halton/halton.html), a C++ library which computes
elements of a Halton quasirandom sequence.

[NORMAL](../../cpp_src/normal/normal.html), a C++ library which computes
elements of a sequence of pseudorandom normally distributed values.

[RANLIB](../../cpp_src/ranlib/ranlib.html), a C++ library which produces
random samples from Probability Density Functions (PDF's), including
Beta, Chi-square Exponential, F, Gamma, Multivariate normal, Noncentral
chi-square, Noncentral F, Univariate normal, random permutations, Real
uniform, Binomial, Negative Binomial, Multinomial, Poisson and Integer
uniform, by Barry Brown and James Lovato.

[RNGLIB](../../cpp_src/rnglib/rnglib.html), a C++ library which
implements a random number generator (RNG) with splitting facilities,
allowing multiple independent streams to be computed, by L'Ecuyer and
Cote.

[UNIFORM](../../cpp_src/uniform/uniform.html), a C++ library which
computes elements of a sequence of pseudorandom uniformly distributed
values.

[VAN\_DER\_CORPUT](../../cpp_src/van_der_corput/van_der_corput.html), a
C++ library which computes elements of a van der Corput quasirandom
sequence.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by Brian Wichman and David Hill; Matlab
version by John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Pierre LEcuyer,\
    Efficient and Portable Combined Random Number Generators,\
    Communications of the ACM,\
    Volume 31, Number 6, June 1988, pages 742-751.
2.  Brian Wichmann, David Hill,\
    Algorithm AS 183: An Efficient and Portable Pseudo-random Number
    Generator,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 31, Number 2, 1982, pages 188-190.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa183.cpp](asa183.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa183.hpp](asa183.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa183\_prb.cpp](asa183_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa183\_prb\_output.txt](asa183_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **R4\_RANDOM** returns a pseudorandom number between 0 and 1.
-   **R4\_UNI** returns a pseudorandom number between 0 and 1.
-   **R8\_RANDOM** returns a pseudorandom number between 0 and 1.
-   **R8\_UNI** returns a pseudorandom number between 0 and 1.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 08 July 2008.*
