ASA239\
the Incomplete Gamma Function {#asa239-the-incomplete-gamma-function align="center"}
=============================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA239** is a C++ library which evaluates the incomplete Gamma
function.

ASA239 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 239. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA239** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa239/asa239.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa239/asa239.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa239/asa239.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa239/asa239.html) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa239/asa239.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA032](../../cpp_src/asa032/asa032.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Gamma function.

[ASA147](../../cpp_src/asa147/asa147.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Gamma function.

[DCDFLIB](../../cpp_src/dcdflib/dcdflib.html), a C++ library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../cpp_src/gsl/gsl.html), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[PROB](../../cpp_src/prob/prob.html), a C++ library which evaluates and
inverts a number of probabilistic distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[TOMS435](../../f77_src/toms435/toms435.html), a FORTRAN77 library which
evaluates the modified incomplete Gamma function.

[TOMS708](../../f_src/toms708/toms708.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
includes routines to evaluate the incomplete Gamma function.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  B Shea,\
    Algorithm AS 239: Chi-squared and Incomplete Gamma Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 37, Number 3, 1988, pages 466-473.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa239.cpp](asa239.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa239.hpp](asa239.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa239\_prb.cpp](asa239_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa239\_prb\_output.txt](asa239_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **GAMMAD** computes the Incomplete Gamma Integral
-   **GAMMA\_INC\_VALUES** returns some values of the incomplete Gamma
    function.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 20 January 2008.*
