ASA310\
CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution {#asa310-cdf-of-the-noncentral-beta-distribution align="center"}
=======================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA310** is a C++ library which computes the cumulative distribution
function (CDF) of the noncentral Beta distribution.

ASA310 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 310. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Warning:** *I could not get this algorithm to perform properly until I
had made a number of corrections.*

*Note that the printed text of the algorithm, and the online version
distributed by APSTAT, omit a crucial initialization of the variable S
to zero.*

Moreover, there are two typographical errors introduced into the online
version distributed by APSTAT; in both cases a multiplication symbol
became a minus sign.

Finally, note that the authors of AS 310 invoke AS 226, but specifically
recommend that the changes submitted by Frick NOT be included. The
version of AS 226 distributed by APSTAT includes the Frick changes; the
version of AS310 distributed by APSTAT includes this copy of AS 226, and
hence the changes suggested by Frick.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA310** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa310/asa310.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa310/asa310.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa310/asa310.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa310/asa310.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa310/asa310.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA063](../../master/asa063/asa063.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

[ASA109](../../master/asa109/asa109.md), a C++ library which inverts
the incomplete Beta function.

[ASA226](../../master/asa226/asa226.md), a C++ library which computes
the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[BETA\_NC](../../master/beta_nc/beta_nc.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[DCDFLIB](../../master/dcdflib/dcdflib.md), a C++ library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../master/gsl/gsl.md), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[PROB](../../master/prob/prob.md), a C++ library which evaluates and
inverts a number of probabilistic distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../master/test_values/test_values.md), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[TOMS179](../../master/toms179/toms179.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

[TOMS708](../../f77_src/toms708/toms708.md), a FORTRAN77 library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  R Chattamvelli, R Shanmugam,\
    Algorithm AS 310: Computing the Non-central Beta Distribution
    Function,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 46, Number 1, 1997, pages 146-156.
2.  H Frick,\
    Algorithm AS R84: A Remark on Algorithm AS 226: Computing Noncentral
    Beta Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 39, Number 2, 1990, pages 311-312.
3.  Russell Lenth,\
    Algorithm AS 226: Computing Noncentral Beta Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 36, Number 2, 1987, pages 241-244.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa310.cpp](asa310.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa310.hpp](asa310.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa310\_prb.cpp](asa310_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa310\_prb\_output.txt](asa310_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **BETA\_NONCENTRAL\_CDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the
    noncentral Beta CDF.
-   **BETAIN** computes the incomplete Beta function ratio.
-   **BETANC** computes the tail of the noncentral Beta distribution.
-   **GAMMAD** computes the Incomplete Gamma Integral
-   **NCBETA** computes the noncentral Beta CDF.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 03 February 2008.*
