ASA136\
The K-Means Algorithm {#asa136-the-k-means-algorithm align="center"}
=====================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA136** is a C++ library which divides M points in N dimensions into
K clusters so that the within-clusters sum of squares is minimized.

ASA136 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 136. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

In the K-Means problem, a set of N points X(I) in M-dimensions is given.
The goal is to arrange these points into K clusters, with each cluster
having a representative point Z(J), usually chosen as the centroid of
the points in the cluster. The energy of each cluster is

            E(J) = Sum ( all points X(I) in cluster J ) || X(I) - Z(J) ||^2
          

For a given set of clusters, the total energy is then simply the sum of
the cluster energies E(J). The goal is to choose the clusters in such a
way that the total energy is minimized. Usually, a point X(I) goes into
the cluster with the closest representative point Z(J). So to define the
clusters, it's enough simply to specify the locations of the cluster
representatives.

This is actually a fairly hard problem. Most algorithms do reasonably
well, but cannot guarantee that the best solution has been found. It is
very common for algorithms to get stuck at a solution which is merely a
"local minimum". For such a local minimum, every slight rearrangement of
the solution makes the energy go up; however a major rearrangement would
result in a big drop in energy.

A simple algorithm for the problem is known as "H-Means". It alternates
between two procedures:

-   Using the given cluster centers, assign each point to the cluster
    with the nearest center;
-   Using the given cluster assignments, replace each cluster center by
    the centroid or average of the points in the cluster.

These steps are repeated until no points are moved, or some other
termination criterion is reached.

A more sophisticated algorithm, known as "K-Means", takes advantage of
the fact that it is possible to quickly determine the decrease in energy
caused by moving a point from its current cluster to another. It repeats
the following procedure:

-   For each point, move it to another cluster if that would lower the
    energy. If you move a point, immediately update the cluster centers
    of the two affected clusters.

This procedure is repeated until no points are moved, or some other
termination criterion is reached.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA136** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa136/asa136.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa136/asa136.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa136/asa136.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa136/asa136.html) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa136/asa136/html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA058](../../cpp_src/asa058/asa058.html), a C++ library which carries
out the K-means algorithm for clustering data.

[ASA113](../../cpp_src/asa113/asa113.html), a C++ library which
implements the Banfield and Bassill clustering algorithm using transfers
and swaps.

[CITIES](../../cpp_src/cities/cities.html), a C++ library which handles
various problems associated with a set of "cities" on a map.

[CITIES](../../datasets/cities/cities.html), a dataset directory which
contains a number of city distance datasets.

[KMEANS](../../cpp_src/kmeans/kmeans.html), a C++ library which contains
several implementations of the H-Means and K-Means clustering
algorithms.

[LAU\_NP](../../f_src/lau_np/lau_np.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
contains heuristic algorithms for the K-center and K-median problems.

[SPAETH](../../f_src/spaeth/spaeth.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
clusters data according to various principles.

[SPAETH](../../datasets/spaeth/spaeth.html), a dataset directory which
contains test data for clustering.

[SPAETH2](../../f_src/spaeth2/spaeth2.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
can cluster data according to various principles.

[SPAETH2](../../datasets/spaeth2/spaeth2.html), a dataset directory
which contains test data for clustering.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  John Hartigan, Manchek Wong,\
    Algorithm AS 136: A K-Means Clustering Algorithm,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 28, Number 1, 1979, pages 100-108.
2.  Wendy Martinez, Angel Martinez,\
    Computational Statistics Handbook with MATLAB,\
    pages 373-376,\
    Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2002.
3.  David Sparks,\
    Algorithm AS 58: Euclidean Cluster Analysis,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 22, Number 1, 1973, pages 126-130.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa136.cpp](asa136.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa136.hpp](asa136.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa136\_prb.cpp](asa136_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [points\_100.txt](points_100.txt), a sample dataset of 100 points in
    2D, to be arranged into 5 classes.
-   [asa136\_prb\_output.txt](asa136_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **KMNS** carries out the K-means algorithm.
-   **OPTRA** carries out the optimal transfer stage.
-   **QTRAN** carries out the quick transfer stage.
-   **R8\_HUGE** returns a "huge" R8.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 15 February 2008.*
