ASA005\
CDF of Noncentral T Distribution. {#asa005-cdf-of-noncentral-t-distribution. align="center"}
=================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA005** is a C++ library which evaluates the lower tail of the
noncentral T distribution, by BE Cooper.

ASA005 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 5. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA005** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa005/asa005.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa005/asa005.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa005/asa005.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa005/asa005.md) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa005/asa005.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA076](../../master/asa076/asa076.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the Owen's T function, needed to compute the CDF of the
noncentral T distribution.

[ASA243](../../master/asa243/asa243.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral T distribution.

[OWENS](../../master/owens/owens.md), a C++ library which evaluates
Owen's T function.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by BE Cooper; C++ version by John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  BE Cooper,\
    Algorithm AS 5: The Integral of the Non-Central T-Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 17, Number 2, 1968, page 193.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa005.cpp](asa005.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa005.hpp](asa005.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa005\_prb.cpp](asa005_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa005\_prb\_output.txt](asa005_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **PRNCST** computes lower tail of noncentral T distribution.
-   **STUDENT\_NONCENTRAL\_CDF\_VALUES** returns values of the
    noncentral Student CDF.
-   **TFN** calculates the T-function of Owen.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 14 December 2011.*
