ASA032\
the Incomplete Gamma Function {#asa032-the-incomplete-gamma-function align="center"}
=============================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA032** is a C++ library which evaluates the incomplete Gamma
function, by G Bhattacharjee.

ASA032 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 32. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA032** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa032/asa032.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa032/asa032.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa032/asa032.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa032/asa032.md) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa032/asa032.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA147](../../master/asa147/asa147.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Gamma function.

[ASA239](../../master/asa239/asa239.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Gamma function.

[DCDFLIB](../../master/dcdflib/dcdflib.md), a C++ library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../master/gsl/gsl.md), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[PROB](../../master/prob/prob.md), a C++ library which evaluates and
inverts a number of probabilistic distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../master/test_values/test_values.md), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[TOMS435](../../f77_src/toms435/toms435.md), a FORTRAN77 library which
evaluates the modified incomplete Gamma function.

[TOMS708](../../f_src/toms708/toms708.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
includes routines to evaluate the incomplete Gamma function.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by G Bhattacharjee; C++ version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  G Bhattacharjee,\
    Algorithm AS 32: The Incomplete Gamma Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 19, Number 3, 1970, pages 285-287.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa032.cpp](asa032.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa032.hpp](asa032.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa032\_prb.cpp](asa032_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa032\_prb\_output.txt](asa032_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNGAM** computes the logarithm of the gamma function.
-   **GAMAIN** computes the incomplete gamma ratio.
-   **GAMMA\_INC\_VALUES** returns some values of the incomplete Gamma
    function.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 17 January 2008.*
