ASA266\
Estimating the Parameters of a Dirichlet PDF {#asa266-estimating-the-parameters-of-a-dirichlet-pdf align="center"}
============================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA266** is a C++ library which estimates the parameters of a
Dirichlet probability density function.

ASA266 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 266. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

The assumption is that a given process is governed by a Dirichlet
distribution with parameters ALPHA(I), I = 1 to N, positive quantities
which are required to sum to 1. Each observation of the process yields a
vector of N data values. After a number of observations of this sort, it
is desired to estimate the the underlying parameters ALPHA of the
Dirichlet distribution.

There are a considerable number of routines required to get DIRICH to
work. In some cases, there are several versions of the routines, and
they all were included, in order to provide a way to check results. Most
of the routines are themselves Applied Statistics Algorithms, and their
source code is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

Also included is a routine DIRICHLET\_SAMPLE, with which experiments can
be carried out. Values for the parameters ALPHA can be chosen, and data
generated by DIRICHLET\_SAMPLE. Then DIRICH can analyze this data and
attempt to determine the values of ALPHA.

Another routine, DIRICHLET\_MIX\_SAMPLE, allows you to sample a
probability distribution that is a weighted mixture of Dirichlet
distributions.

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA266** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa266/asa266.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa266/asa266.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa266/asa266.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa266/asa266.md) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa266/asa266.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA032](../../master/asa032/asa032.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Gamma integral.

[ASA066](../../master/asa066/asa066.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the normal distribution.

[ASA091](../../master/asa091/asa091.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the Chi-Squared distribution.

[ASA103](../../master/asa103/asa103.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the digamma or psi function.

[ASA111](../../master/asa111/asa111.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the normal distribution.

[ASA121](../../master/asa121/asa121.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the trigamma function.

[ASA147](../../master/asa147/asa147.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Gamma function.

[ASA239](../../master/asa239/asa239.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the Chi-Squared distribution and the
incomplete Gamma function.

[ASA241](../../master/asa241/asa241.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the normal distribution.

[ASA245](../../master/asa245/asa245.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the logarithm of the Gamma function.

[NORMAL](../../master/normal/normal.md), a C++ library which samples
the normal distribution.

[PROB](../../master/prob/prob.md), a C++ library which evaluates the
PDF, CDF, mean and variance for a number of probability density
functions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../master/test_values/test_values.md), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[TOMS291](../../master/toms291/toms291.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the logarithm of the Gamma function.

[UNIFORM](../../master/uniform/uniform.md), a C++ library which
samples the uniform distribution.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  AG Adams,\
    Algorithm 39: Areas Under the Normal Curve,\
    Computer Journal,\
    Volume 12, Number 2, May 1969, pages 197-198.
2.  Joachim Ahrens, Ulrich Dieter,\
    Computer Methods for Sampling from Gamma, Beta, Poisson and Binomial
    Distributions,\
    Computing,\
    Volume 12, Number 3, September 1974, pages 223-246.
3.  Joachim Ahrens, Ulrich Dieter,\
    Generating Gamma Variates by a Modified Rejection Technique,\
    Communications of the ACM,\
    Volume 25, Number 1, January 1982, pages 47-54.
4.  Jerry Banks, editor,\
    Handbook of Simulation,\
    Wiley, 1998,\
    ISBN: 0471134031,\
    LC: T57.62.H37.
5.  JD Beasley, SG Springer,\
    Algorithm AS 111: The Percentage Points of the Normal Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 26, Number 1, 1977, pages 118-121.
6.  Jose Bernardo,\
    Algorithm AS 103: Psi ( Digamma ) Function,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 25, Number 3, 1976, pages 315-317.
7.  Donald Best, DE Roberts,\
    Algorithm AS 91: The Percentage Points of the Chi-Squared
    Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 24, Number 3, 1975, pages 385-390.
8.  G Bhattacharjee,\
    Algorithm AS 32: The Incomplete Gamma Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 19, Number 3, 1970, pages 285-287.
9.  William Cody, Kenneth Hillstrom,\
    Chebyshev Approximations for the Natural Logarithm of the Gamma
    Function,\
    Mathematics of Computation,\
    Volume 21, Number 98, April 1967, pages 198-203.
10. William Cody, Anthony Strecok, Henry Thacher,\
    Chebyshev Approximations for the Psi Function,\
    Mathematics of Computation,\
    Volume 27, Number 121, January 1973, pages 123-127.
11. John Hart, Ward Cheney, Charles Lawson, Hans Maehly, Charles
    Mesztenyi, John Rice, Henry Thacher, Christoph Witzgall,\
    Computer Approximations,\
    Wiley, 1968,\
    LC: QA297.C64.
12. David Hill, Algorithm AS 66: The Normal Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 22, Number 3, 1973, pages 424-427.
13. Cornelius Lanczos,\
    A precision approximation of the gamma function,\
    SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis, B,\
    Volume 1, 1964, pages 86-96.
14. Chi Leung Lau,\
    Algorithm AS 147: A Simple Series for the Incomplete Gamma
    Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 29, Number 1, 1980, pages 113-114.
15. Allan Mcleod,\
    Algorithm AS 245: A Robust and Reliable Algorithm for the Logarithm
    of the Gamma Function,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 38, Number 2, 1989, pages 397-402.
16. A. Naryanan,\
    Algorithm AS 266: Maximum Likelihood Estimation of the Parameters of
    the Dirichlet Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 40, Number 2, 1991, pages 365-374.
17. Malcolm Pike, David Hill,\
    Algorithm 291: Logarithm of Gamma Function,\
    Communications of the ACM,\
    Volume 9, Number 9, September 1966, page 684.
18. BE Schneider,\
    Algorithm AS 121: Trigamma Function,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 27, Number 1, 1978, pages 97-99.
19. BL Shea,\
    Algorithm AS 239: Chi-squared and Incomplete Gamma Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 37, Number 3, 1988, pages 466-473.
20. Michael Wichura,\
    Algorithm AS 241: The Percentage Points of the Normal Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 37, Number 3, 1988, pages 477-484.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa266.cpp](asa266.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa266.hpp](asa266.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa266\_prb.cpp](asa266_prb.cpp) a sample calling program.
-   [asa266\_prb\_output.txt](asa266_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNGAM** computes the logarithm of the gamma function.
-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **ALOGAM** computes the logarithm of the Gamma function.
-   **DIGAMMA** calculates DIGAMMA ( X ) = d ( LOG ( GAMMA ( X ) ) ) /
    dX
-   **DIRICHLET\_CHECK** checks the parameters of the Dirichlet PDF.
-   **DIRICHLET\_VARIANCE** returns the variances of the Dirichlet PDF.
-   **EXPONENTIAL\_01\_SAMPLE** samples the Exponential PDF with
    parameters 0, 1.
-   **EXPONENTIAL\_CDF\_INV** inverts the Exponential CDF.
-   **GAMAIN** computes the incomplete gamma ratio.
-   **GAMMAD** computes the Incomplete Gamma Integral
-   **GAMMDS** computes the incomplete Gamma integral.
-   **LNGAMMA** computes Log(Gamma(X)) using a Lanczos approximation.
-   **NORMP** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **NPROB** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **PPCHI2** evaluates the percentage points of the Chi-squared PDF.
-   **PPND** produces the normal deviate value corresponding to lower
    tail area = P.
-   **PPND16** inverts the standard normal CDF.
-   **R8\_ABS** returns the absolute value of an R8.
-   **R8\_EPSILON** returns the R8 round off unit.
-   **R8\_GAMMA\_LOG** evaluates the logarithm of the gamma function.
-   **R8\_HUGE** returns a "huge" R8.
-   **R8\_MIN** returns the minimum of two R8's.
-   **R8\_UNIFORM** returns a pseudorandom R8 scaled to \[A,B\].
-   **R8COL\_MEAN** returns the column means of an R8COL.
-   **R8COL\_VARIANCE** returns the variances of an R8COL.
-   **R8POLY\_VALUE** evaluates a polynomial.
-   **R8VEC\_SUM** returns the sum of an R8VEC.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.
-   **TRIGAMMA** calculates trigamma(x) = d\^2 log(gamma(x)) / dx\^2

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 05 June 2013.*
