ASA299\
Lattice Points in N-dimensional Simplex {#asa299-lattice-points-in-n-dimensional-simplex align="center"}
=======================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA299** is a C++ library which generates, one at a time, the lattice
points (integer coordinates) contained in a simplex.

ASA299 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 299.

The simplex is defined by N-dimensional points **X** such that:

> **0 &lt;= X(1:N)**

and

> **sum ( X(1:N) ) &lt;= T**

where T is an integer.

Lattice points are points **X** which satisfy the simplex conditions and
for which all the components are integers.

This routine generates all the lattice points in a given simplex, one at
a time, in a reverse lexicographic order.

The output for **N** = 3, **T** = 4 would be:

            1    4  0  0
            2    3  1  0
            3    3  0  1
            4    2  2  0
            5    2  1  1
            6    2  0  2
            7    1  3  0
            8    1  2  1
            9    1  1  2
           10    1  0  3
           11    0  4  0
           12    0  3  1
           13    0  2  2
           14    0  1  3
           15    0  0  4
          

### Usage: {#usage align="center"}

> **call simplex\_lattice\_point\_next ( n, t, more, x )**

To use the routine, initialize by setting the spatial dimension **N**
and the simplex size parameter **T** to appropriate values, and set
**MORE** to FALSE. The initial value of **X** is not important.

Call the routine. On return, **X** will contain the first lattice point
in the simplex. If **MORE** is TRUE, then the routine may be called
again to get the next point. In fact, as long as the output value of
**MORE** is TRUE, there is at least one more lattice point that can be
found by making another call. When **MORE** is returned as FALSE, then
there are no more lattice points; the value of **X** returned at that
time is the "last" such point.

During the computation of a sequence of lattice points, the user should
not change the values of **N**, **T**, **MORE** or **X**.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA299** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa299/asa299.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa299/asa299.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa299/asa299.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa299/asa299.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa299/asa299.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[COMBO](../../f_src/combo/combo.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
enumerates combinations, partitions, subsets, index sets, and other
combinatorial objects.

[SUBSET](../../f_src/subset/subset.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
enumerates combinations, partitions, subsets, index sets, and other
combinatorial objects.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Scott Chasalow, Richard Brand,\
    Algorithm AS 299: Generation of Simplex Lattice Points,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 44, Number 4, 1995, pages 534-545.
2.  Albert Nijenhuis, Herbert Wilf,\
    Combinatorial Algorithms for Computers and Calculators,\
    Second Edition,\
    Academic Press, 1978,\
    ISBN: 0-12-519260-6,\
    LC: QA164.N54.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa299.cpp](asa299.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa299.hpp](asa299.hpp), the source code.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa299\_prb.cpp](asa299_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa299\_prb\_output.txt](asa299_prb_output.txt), the output ffile.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **SIMPLEX\_LATTICE\_POINT\_NEXT** generates lattice points in a
    simplex.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 10 January 2007.*
