ASA007\
Inverse of a Symmetric Positive Definite Matrix {#asa007-inverse-of-a-symmetric-positive-definite-matrix align="center"}
===============================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA007** is a C++ library which computes the inverse of a symmetric
positive definite matrix, by Michael Healy.

ASA007 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 7. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

The algorithm implemented here uses a compressed storage for both the
matrix **A** and the factor **U**. This saves some storage, but can make
computations a little awkward.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA007** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa007/asa007.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa007/asa007.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa007/asa007.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa007/asa007.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa007/asa007.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA006](../../master/asa006/asa006.md), a C++ library which computes
the Cholesky factorization of a symmetric positive definite matrix. A
version of this routine is used by ASA007.

[ASA047](../../master/asa047/asa047.md), a C++ library which
implements the Nelder-Mead minimization algorithm, and uses a version of
ASA007 for the computation.

[LAPACK\_EXAMPLES](../../f77_src/lapack_examples/lapack_examples.md),
a FORTRAN77 program which demonstrates the use of the LAPACK linear
algebra library.

[LINPACK\_D](../../master/linpack_d/linpack_d.md), a C++ library
which includes routines to compute the inverse of symmetric positive
matrix using double precision real arithmetic.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Michael Healy

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Michael Healy,\
    Algorithm AS 7: Inversion of a Positive Semi-Definite Symmetric
    Matrix,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 17, Number 2, 1968, pages 198-199.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa007.cpp](asa007.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa007.hpp](asa007.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa007\_prb.cpp](asa007_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa007\_prb\_output.txt](asa007_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **CHOLESKY** computes the Cholesky factorization of a PDS matrix.
-   **SYMINV** computes the inverse of a symmetric matrix.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 14 December 2011.*
