XYZF\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL\
Display 3D Points and Faces Using OpenGL {#xyzf_display_opengl-display-3d-points-and-faces-using-opengl align="center"}
========================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**XYZF\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL** is a C++ program which reads XYZF information
defining 3D points and faces, and displays an image using **OPENGL**.

The program displays the data, and slowly rotates it.

SXYZ\_VORONOI, which computes the Voronoi diagram for a set of points on
a sphere, is an example of the programs whose output can be displayed by
XYZF\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL.

### Usage: {#usage align="center"}

> **xyzf\_display\_opengl** *prefix*

where

reads the XYZ coordinate data in *prefix.xyz* and the face information
in *prefix.xyzf*, and displays a plot of the points and faces. The image
will slowly rotate. Successive mouse clicks alternate the axis of
rotation from the X, to the Y, to the Z axis and back again.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**XYZF\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL** is available in [a C++
version](../../master/xyzf_display_opengl/xyzf_display_opengl.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[FERN\_OPENGL](../../master/fern_opengl/fern_opengl.md), a C++
program which uses OpenGL to display the Barnsley fractal fern.

[OPENGL](../../master/opengl/opengl.md), C++ programs which
illustrate the use of the OpenGL graphics library;

[POLYGONAL\_SURFACE\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL](../../master/polygonal_surface_display_opengl/polygonal_surface_display_opengl.md),
a C++ program which displays a surface in 3D described as a set of
polygons, using OpenGL.

[ROTATING\_CUBE\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL](../../master/rotating_cube_display_opengl/rotating_cube_display_opengl.md),
a C++ program which displays a rotating color cube in 3D, using OpenGL;

[SPHERE\_VORONOI](../../f_src/sphere_voronoi/sphere_voronoi.md), a
FORTRAN90 library which reads an XYZ file of 3D points on the unit
sphere, and computes and plots Delaunay triangulations and Voronoi
diagrams.

[SPHERE\_XYZ\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL](../../master/sphere_xyz_display_opengl/sphere_xyz_display_opengl.md),
a C++ program which reads XYZ information defining points in 3D, and
displays a unit sphere and the points, using OpenGL.

[TRIANGULATION\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL](../../master/triangulation_display_opengl/triangulation_display_opengl.md),
a C++ program which reads files defining a triangulation and displays an
image using Open GL.

[XYF\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL](../../master/xyf_display_opengl/xyf_display_opengl.md),
a C++ program which reads XYF information defining points and faces in
2D, and displays an image using OpenGL.

[XYZ](../../data/xyz/xyz.md), a data directory which contains some
examples of 3D pointsets.

[XYZ\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL](../../master/xyz_display_opengl/xyz_display_opengl.md),
a C++ program which reads an XYZ file of 3D point coordinates, and
displays an image of those points using OpenGL.

[XYZF](../../data/xyzf/xyzf.md), a data directory which contains some
examples of sets of 3D points and faces.

[XYZL](../../data/xyzl/xyzl.md), a data directory which contains some
examples of sets of 3D points and lines.

[XYZL\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL](../../master/xyzl_display_opengl/xyzl_display_opengl.md),
a C++ program which reads XYZL information defining points and lines in
3D, and displays an image in a MATLAB graphics window.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Edward Angel,\
    Interactive Computer Graphics, a Top-Down Approach with OpenGL,\
    Addison-Wesley, 2000,\
    ISBN: 0-201-38597-X,\
    LC: T385.A514.
2.  Renate Kempf, Chris Frazier, editors,\
    OpenGL Reference Manual,\
    Fourth Edition,\
    Addison-Wesley, 2004,\
    ISBN: 032117383X,\
    LC: T385.O642
3.  Mason Woo, Jackie Neider, Tom Davis,\
    OpenGL Programming Guide,\
    Addison-Wesley, 1997,\
    ISBN: 0-201-46138-2,\
    LC: T385.N435
4.  Richard Wright, Michael Sweet,\
    OpenGL Superbible,\
    Third Edition,\
    Sams, 2004,\
    ISBN: 0672326019,\
    LC: T385.W73
5.  <http://www.opengl.org/>\
    The official OpenGL site.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [xyzf\_display\_opengl.cpp](xyzf_display_opengl.cpp), the source
    code.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [sphere.xyz](sphere.xyz), the vertices of a Voronoi diagram on the
    unit sphere.
-   [sphere.xyzf](sphere.xyzf), the vertices that must be joined to make
    the faces.
-   [sphere.png](sphere.png), a PNG image of the screen generated by
    Open GL.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **MAIN** is the main program for XYZF\_DISPLAY\_OPENGL.
-   **CH\_EQI** is true if two characters are equal, disregarding case.
-   **CH\_TO\_DIGIT** returns the integer value of a base 10 digit.
-   **DISPLAY** generates the graphics output.
-   **I4VEC\_MAX** returns the value of the maximum element in an I4VEC.
-   **I4VEC\_MIN** returns the value of the minimum element in an I4VEC.
-   **MOUSE** determines the response to mouse input.
-   **MYINIT** initializes OpenGL state variables dealing with viewing
    and attributes.
-   **MYRESHAPE** determines the window mapping.
-   **R8\_MAX** returns the maximum of two R8's.
-   **R8\_MIN** returns the minimum of two R8's.
-   **R83VEC\_MAX** returns the maximum value in an R83VEC.
-   **R83VEC\_MIN** returns the minimum value in an R83VEC.
-   **S\_LEN\_TRIM** returns the length of a string to the last
    nonblank.
-   **S\_TO\_I4** reads an I4 from a string.
-   **S\_TO\_I4VEC** reads an I4VEC from a string.
-   **S\_TO\_R8** reads an R8 from a string.
-   **S\_TO\_R8VEC** reads an R8VEC from a string.
-   **S\_WORD\_COUNT** counts the number of "words" in a string.
-   **SPIN\_IMAGE** adjusts the angle of rotation and redisplays the
    picture.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.
-   **XYZ\_DATA\_PRINT** prints the data for an XYZ file.
-   **XYZ\_DATA\_READ** reads the data in an XYZ file.
-   **XYZ\_HEADER\_PRINT** prints the header of an XYZ file.
-   **XYZ\_HEADER\_READ** reads the header of an XYZ file.
-   **XYZF\_DATA\_PRINT** prints the data of an XYZF file.
-   **XYZF\_DATA\_READ** reads the data in an XYZF file.
-   **XYZF\_HEADER\_PRINT** prints the header of an XYZF file.
-   **XYZF\_HEADER\_READ** determines the number of face items in an
    XYZF file.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 01 March 2011.*
