ASA103\
The Digamma or Psi Function {#asa103-the-digamma-or-psi-function align="center"}
===========================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA103** is a C++ library which evaluates the digamma or psi function,
by Jose Bernardo.

ASA103 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 103. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA103** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa103/asa103.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa103/asa103.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa103/asa103.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa103/asa103.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa103/asa103.md) and [a Python
version](../../py_src/asa103/asa103.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA121](../../master/asa121/asa121.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the trigamma function.

[FN](../../master/fn/fn.md), a C++ library which approximates
elementary and special functions using Chebyshev polynomials; functions
include Airy, Bessel I, Bessel J, Bessel K, Bessel Y, beta, confluent
hypergeometric, cosine integral, Dawson's integral, digamma (psi),
error, exponential integral, gamma, hyperbolic cosine integral,
hyperbolic sine integral, incomplete gamma, log gamma, logarithmic
integral, Pochhammer, psi, sine integral, Spence; by Wayne Fullerton.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../master/test_values/test_values.md), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[TOMS708](../../f_src/toms708/toms708.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
includes routines to evaluate the digamma function.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by Jose Bernardo; C++ version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Jose Bernardo,\
    Algorithm AS 103: Psi ( Digamma ) Function,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 25, Number 3, 1976, pages 315-317.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa103.cpp](asa103.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa103.hpp](asa103.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa103\_prb.cpp](asa103_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa103\_prb\_output.txt](asa103_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **DIGAMA** calculates DIGAMMA ( X ) = d ( LOG ( GAMMA ( X ) ) ) / dX
-   **PSI\_VALUES** returns some values of the Psi or Digamma function
    for testing.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 18 January 2008.*
