ASA226\
CDF of the noncentral Beta Distribution {#asa226-cdf-of-the-noncentral-beta-distribution align="center"}
=======================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA226** is a C++ library which evaluates the cumulative distribution
function (CDF) of the noncentral Beta Distribution.

ASA226 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 226. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

The program can produce reasonably accurate answers for values of the
noncentrality parameter up to about 100.

*Note that an improvement to **ASA226** was suggested by Frick, and
implemented in the online copy available through STATLIB. When I run the
improved copy, the computation fails. Therefore, the version I have put
together has suppressed the improvement for now until I can determine
the stray minus sign or logic error causing the problem.*

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA226** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa226/asa226.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa226/asa226.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa226/asa226.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa226/asa226.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa226/asa226.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA063](../../cpp_src/asa063/asa063.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

[ASA109](../../cpp_src/asa109/asa109.html), a C++ library which inverts
the incomplete Beta function.

[ASA310](../../cpp_src/asa310/asa310.html), a C++ library which computes
the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[BETA\_NC](../../cpp_src/beta_nc/beta_nc.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[DCDFLIB](../../cpp_src/dcdflib/dcdflib.html), a C++ library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../cpp_src/gsl/gsl.html), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[PROB](../../cpp_src/prob/prob.html), a C++ library which evaluates and
inverts a number of probabilistic distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[TOMS179](../../cpp_src/toms179/toms179.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

[TOMS708](../../f_src/toms708/toms708.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  H Frick,\
    Algorithm AS R84: A Remark on Algorithm AS 226: Computing Noncentral
    Beta Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 39, Number 2, 1990, pages 311-312.
2.  Russell Lenth,\
    Algorithm AS 226: Computing Noncentral Beta Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 36, Number 2, 1987, pages 241-244.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa226.cpp](asa226.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa226.hpp](asa226.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa226\_prb.cpp](asa226_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa226\_prb\_output.txt](asa226_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **BETA\_NONCENTRAL\_CDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the
    noncentral Beta CDF.
-   **BETAIN** computes the incomplete Beta function ratio.
-   **BETANC** computes the tail of the noncentral Beta distribution.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 24 January 2008.*
