ASA152\
Hypergeometric Probabilities. {#asa152-hypergeometric-probabilities. align="center"}
=============================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA152** is a C++ library which computes the "point" or "cumulative"
probabilities associated with the hypergeometric probability
distribution, by Richard Lund.

ASA152 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 152. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA152** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa152/asa152.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa152/asa152.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa152/asa152.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa152/asa152.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa152/asa152.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[DCDFLIB](../../cpp_src/dcdflib/dcdflib.html), a C++ library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../cpp_src/gsl/gsl.html), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[PROB](../../cpp_src/prob/prob.html), a C++ library which evaluates and
inverts a number of probabilistic distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by Richard Lund; C++ version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  PR Freeman,\
    Algorithm AS 59: Hypergeometric Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 22, Number 1, 1973, pages 130-133.
2.  Richard Lund,\
    Algorithm AS 152: Cumulative hypergeometric probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 29, Number 2, 1980, pages 221-223.
3.  BL Shea,\
    Remark AS R77: A Remark on Algorithm AS 152: Cumulative
    hypergeometric probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 38, Number 1, 1989, pages 199-204.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa152.cpp](asa152.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa152.hpp](asa152.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa152\_prb.cpp](asa152_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa152\_prb\_output.txt](asa152_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNFAC** computes the logarithm of the factorial of N.
-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **CHYPER** computes point or cumulative hypergeometric
    probabilities.
-   **HYPERGEOMETRIC\_CDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the
    hypergeometric CDF.
-   **HYPERGEOMETRIC\_PDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the
    hypergeometric PDF.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 27 January 2008.*
