ASA047\
Nelder-Mead Minimization Algorithm {#asa047-nelder-mead-minimization-algorithm align="center"}
==================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA047** is a C++ library which seeks to minimize a scalar function of
several variables using the Nelder-Mead algorithm, by R ONeill.

ASA047 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 47. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA047** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa047/asa047.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa047/asa047.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa047/asa047.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa047/asa047.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa047/asa047.md) and [a Python
version](../../py_src/asa047/asa047.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[COMPASS\_SEARCH](../../master/compass_search/compass_search.md), a
C++ library which seeks the minimizer of a scalar function of several
variables using compass search, a direct search algorithm that does not
use derivatives.

[PRAXIS](../../master/praxis/praxis.md), a C++ routine which
minimizes a scalar function of several variables.

[TEST\_OPT](../../f_src/test_opt/test_opt.md), a FORTRAN90 library
which defines test problems requiring the minimization of a scalar
function of several variables.

[TOMS178](../../master/toms178/toms178.md), a C++ library which
optimizes a scalar functional of multiple variables using the
Hooke-Jeeves method.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by R ONeill; C++ version by John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  John Nelder, Roger Mead,\
    A simplex method for function minimization,\
    Computer Journal,\
    Volume 7, 1965, pages 308-313.
2.  R ONeill,\
    Algorithm AS 47: Function Minimization Using a Simplex Procedure,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 20, Number 3, 1971, pages 338-345.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa047.cpp](asa047.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa047.hpp](asa047.hpp), the source code.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa047\_prb.cpp](asa047_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa047\_prb\_output.txt](asa047_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **NELMIN** minimizes a function using the Nelder-Mead algorithm.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 27 February 2008.*
