ASA066\
The Standard Normal Cumulative Density Function {#asa066-the-standard-normal-cumulative-density-function align="center"}
===============================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA066** is a C++ library which computes the cumulative density
function of the standard normal distribution, by David Hill.

ASA066 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 66. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA066** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa066/asa066.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa066/asa066.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa066/asa066.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa066/asa066.html) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa066/asa066.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA111](../../cpp_src/asa111/asa111.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the normal distribution.

[ASA241](../../cpp_src/asa241/asa241.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the percentage points of the normal distribution.

[DCDFLIB](../../cpp_src/dcdflib/dcdflib.html), a C++ library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../cpp_src/gsl/gsl.html), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[NORMAL](../../cpp_src/normal/normal.html), a C++ library which samples
the normal distribution.

[PROB](../../cpp_src/prob/prob.html), a C++ library which evaluates and
inverts a number of probabilistic distributions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[UNIFORM](../../cpp_src/uniform/uniform.html), a C++ library which
samples the uniform distribution.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by David Hill; C++ version by John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  AG Adams,\
    Algorithm 39: Areas Under the Normal Curve,\
    Computer Journal,\
    Volume 12, Number 2, May 1969, pages 197-198.
2.  John Hart, Ward Cheney, Charles Lawson, Hans Maehly, Charles
    Mesztenyi, John Rice, Henry Thacher, Christoph Witzgall,\
    Computer Approximations,\
    Wiley, 1968,\
    LC: QA297.C64.
3.  David Hill,\
    Algorithm AS 66: The Normal Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 22, Number 3, 1973, pages 424-427.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa066.cpp](asa066.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa066.hpp](asa066.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa066\_prb.cpp](asa066_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa066\_prb\_output.txt](asa066_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **NORMAL\_01\_CDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the Normal 01
    CDF.
-   **NORMP** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **NPROB** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 28 October 2009.*
