ASA172\
Generation of all multi-indices in a given range {#asa172-generation-of-all-multi-indices-in-a-given-range align="center"}
================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA172** is a C++ library which generates all multidimensional indices
in a given range. simulating the behavior of an arbitrary number of
nested loops, by OFlaherty and MacKenzie.

If the number of dimensions was known in advance, such an operation
could be carried out by the corresponding set of nested loops. For
example, in 3D:

            for ( i = i1; i <= i2; i++ )
              for ( j = j1: j <= j2; j2++ )
                for ( k = k1; k <= k2; k++ )
                  (I,J,K) is an index in the range.
          

One feature of this library, though, is that it can generate all such
indexes for an arbitrary number of dimensions.

ASA172 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 172. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA172** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa172/asa172.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa172/asa172.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa172/asa172.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa172/asa172.md) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa172/asa172.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[SUBSET](../../master/subset/subset.md), a C++ library which
enumerates combinations, partitions, subsets, index sets, trees, and
other combinatorial objects.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by M OFlaherty, G MacKenzie; C++ version by
John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  M OFlaherty, G MacKenzie,\
    Algorithm AS 172: Direct Simulation of Nested Fortran DO-LOOPS,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 31, Number 1, 1982, pages 71-74.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa172.cpp](asa172.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa172.hpp](asa172.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa172\_prb.cpp](asa172_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa172\_prb\_output.txt](asa172_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **REVERS** reorders the subscript vector, if required.
-   **SIMDO** generates multi-indices, simulating nested DO-loops.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 27 July 2008.*
