ASA243\
CDF of the noncentral T Distribution {#asa243-cdf-of-the-noncentral-t-distribution align="center"}
====================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA243** is a C++ library which computes the cumulative density
function (CDF) of the noncentral Student's T probability density
function.

ASA243 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 243. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA243** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa243/asa243.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa243/asa243.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa243/asa243.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa243/asa243.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa243/asa243.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA005](../../cpp_src/asa005/asa005.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral T distribution.

[ASA076](../../cpp_src/asa076/asa076.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the Owen's T function, needed to compute the CDF of the
noncentral T distribution.

[OWENS](../../cpp_src/owens/owens.html), a C++ library which evaluates
Owen's T function.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  William Guenther,\
    Evaluation of probabilities for the noncentral distributions and
    difference of two T-variables with a desk calculator,\
    Journal of Statistical Computation and Simulation,\
    Volume 6, Number 3-4, 1978, pages 199-206.
2.  Russell Lenth,\
    Algorithm AS 243: Cumulative Distribution Function of the
    Non-Central T Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 38, Number 1, 1989, pages 185-189.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa243.cpp](asa243.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa243.hpp](asa243.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa243\_prb.cpp](asa243_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa243\_prb\_output.txt](asa243_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **BETAIN** computes the incomplete Beta function ratio.
-   **STUDENT\_NONCENTRAL\_CDF\_VALUES** returns values of the
    noncentral Student CDF.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.
-   **TNC** computes the tail of the noncentral T distribution.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 25 January 2008.*
