ASA113\
A Transfer Algorithm for Non-hierarchical Classification {#asa113-a-transfer-algorithm-for-non-hierarchical-classification align="center"}
========================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA113** is a C++ library which divides M points in N dimensions into
K clusters seeking the division which minimizes a user-defined
criterion, by Banfield and Bassill.

ASA113 is in some sense a generalization of the K-means algorithm,
because the user is allowed to choose the criterion function to be
minimized, and because the algorithm considers both all possible
transfers of an object from one class to another, and all possible
exchanges that swap two objects.

However, because it is *not* a K-means algorithm, there is a significant
amount of work off-loaded onto the user, and the task of evaluating the
change in the criterion function can be far more expensive than in the
K-means setting, and the consideration of all possible exchanges can
result in an explosion in the running time for large data sets.

Thus, the algorithm should not be the first choice if a K-means
calculation is really what is desired, and it may be far too expensive
to use if the size of the data set is significant.

ASA113 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 113. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA113** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa113/asa113.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa113/asa113.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa113/asa113.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa113/asa113.html) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa113/asa113/html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA058](../../cpp_src/asa058/asa058.html), a C++ library which carries
out the K-means algorithm for clustering data.

[ASA136](../../cpp_src/asa136/asa136.html), a C++ library which carries
out the K-means algorithm for clustering data.

[CITIES](../../cpp_src/cities/cities.html), a C++ library which handles
various problems associated with a set of "cities" on a map.

[CITIES](../../datasets/cities/cities.html), a dataset directory which
contains a number of city distance datasets.

[KMEANS](../../cpp_src/kmeans/kmeans.html), a C++ library which contains
several implementations of the H-Means and K-Means clustering
algorithms.

[LAU\_NP](../../f_src/lau_np/lau_np.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
contains heuristic algorithms for the K-center and K-median problems.

[SPAETH](../../f_src/spaeth/spaeth.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
clusters data according to various principles.

[SPAETH](../../datasets/spaeth/spaeth.html), a dataset directory which
contains test data for clustering.

[SPAETH2](../../f_src/spaeth2/spaeth2.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
can cluster data according to various principles.

[SPAETH2](../../datasets/spaeth2/spaeth2.html), a dataset directory
which contains test data for clustering.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by Banfield and Bassill; C++ version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Colin Banfield, LC Bassill,\
    Algorithm AS 113: A transfer for non-hierarchichal classification,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 26, Number 2, 1977, pages 206-210.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa113.cpp](asa113.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa113.hpp](asa113.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa113\_prb.cpp](asa113_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [points\_100.txt](points_100.txt), a sample dataset of 100 points in
    2D, to be arranged into 5 classes.
-   [asa113\_prb\_output.txt](asa113_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **SWAP** interchanges objects between different classes to improve a
    criterion.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.
-   **TRNSFR** transfers objects between classes to improve a criterion.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 17 February 2008.*
