ASA063\
the Incomplete Beta Function {#asa063-the-incomplete-beta-function align="center"}
============================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA063** is a C++ library which evaluates the incomplete Beta
function, by KL Majumder and G Bhattacharjee.

ASA063 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 63. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA063** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa063/asa063.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa063/asa063.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa063/asa063.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa063/asa063.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa063/asa063.html) and [a Python
version.](../../py_src/asa063/asa063.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA109](../../cpp_src/asa109/asa109.html) is a C++ library which
inverts the incomplete Beta function.

[ASA226](../../cpp_src/asa226/asa226.html) is a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[BETA\_NC](../../cpp_src/beta_nc/beta_nc.html) is a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html) is a C++
library which stores a few values of various mathematical functions.

[TOMS179](../../cpp_src/toms179/toms179.html) is a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

[TOMS708](../../f_src/toms708/toms708.html) is a FORTRAN90 library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by KL Majumder, GP Bhattacharjee; C++ version
by John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  KL Majumder, GP Bhattacharjee,\
    Algorithm AS 63: The incomplete Beta Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 22, Number 3, 1973, pages 409-411.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa063.cpp](asa063.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa063.hpp](asa063.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa063\_prb.cpp](asa063_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa063\_prb\_output.txt](asa063_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **BETA\_INC\_VALUES** returns some values of the incomplete Beta
    function.
-   **BETAIN** computes the incomplete Beta function ratio.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 23 January 2008.*
