ASA109\
Inverse of Incomplete Beta Function {#asa109-inverse-of-incomplete-beta-function align="center"}
===================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA109** is a C++ library which "inverts" the incomplete Beta function
by Cran, Martin and Thomas.

Given a value of the incomplete Beta function, it can determine the
argument that produced that value.

**ASA109** is Applied Statistics Algorithm 109. Source code for many
Applied Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA109** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa109/asa109.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa109/asa109.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa109/asa109.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa109/asa109.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa109/asa109.html).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA063](../../cpp_src/asa063/asa063.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

[ASA226](../../cpp_src/asa226/asa226.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[ASA310](../../cpp_src/asa310/asa310.html), a C++ library which computes
the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[BETA\_NC](../../cpp_src/beta_nc/beta_nc.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral Beta distribution.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which stores a few values of various mathematical functions.

[TOMS179](../../cpp_src/toms179/toms179.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

[TOMS708](../../f_src/toms708/toms708.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
evaluates the incomplete Beta function.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by GW Cran, KJ Martin, GE Thomas; C++ version
by John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  GW Cran, KJ Martin, GE Thomas,\
    Remark AS R19 and Algorithm AS 109: A Remark on Algorithms AS 63:
    The Incomplete Beta Integral and AS 64: Inverse of the Incomplete
    Beta Integeral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 26, Number 1, 1977, pages 111-114.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa109.cpp](asa109.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa109.hpp](asa109.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa109\_prb.cpp](asa109_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa109\_prb\_output.txt](asa109_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **BETAIN** computes the incomplete Beta function ratio.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.
-   **XINBTA** computes inverse of the incomplete Beta function.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 09 February 2008.*
