ASA314\
Matrix Inversion with Modulo Arithmetic {#asa314-matrix-inversion-with-modulo-arithmetic align="center"}
=======================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA314** is a C++ library which computes the inverse of a matrix whose
elements are subject to modulo arithmetic, by Roger Payne.

ASA314 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 314. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA314** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa314/asa314.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa314/asa314.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa314/asa314.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa314/asa314.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa314/asa314.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Roger Payne,\
    Inversion of matrices with contents subject to modulo arithmetic,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 46, Number 2, 1997, pages 295-298.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa314.cpp](asa314.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa314.hpp](asa314.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa314\_prb.cpp](asa314_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa314\_prb\_output.txt](asa314_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **INVMOD** inverts a matrix using modulo arithmetic.
-   **MSORT** sorts matrix rows and columns in ascending order of
    moduli.
-   **MUSORT** unsorts the inverse matrix rows and columns into the
    original order.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 09 December 2013.*
