ASA058\
the K-Means Problem {#asa058-the-k-means-problem align="center"}
===================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA058** is a C++ library which seeks solutions of the K-Means
problem, by David Sparks.

ASA058 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 58. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

In the K-Means problem, a set of N points X(I) in M-dimensions is given.
The goal is to arrange these points into K clusters, with each cluster
having a representative point Z(J), usually chosen as the centroid of
the points in the cluster. The energy of each cluster is

            E(J) = Sum ( all points X(I) in cluster J ) || X(I) - Z(J) ||^2
          

For a given set of clusters, the total energy is then simply the sum of
the cluster energies E(J). The goal is to choose the clusters in such a
way that the total energy is minimized. Usually, a point X(I) goes into
the cluster with the closest representative point Z(J). So to define the
clusters, it's enough simply to specify the locations of the cluster
representatives.

This is actually a fairly hard problem. Most algorithms do reasonably
well, but cannot guarantee that the best solution has been found. It is
very common for algorithms to get stuck at a solution which is merely a
"local minimum". For such a local minimum, every slight rearrangement of
the solution makes the energy go up; however a major rearrangement would
result in a big drop in energy.

A simple algorithm for the problem is known as "H-Means". It alternates
between two procedures:

-   Using the given cluster centers, assign each point to the cluster
    with the nearest center;
-   Using the given cluster assignments, replace each cluster center by
    the centroid or average of the points in the cluster.

These steps are repeated until no points are moved, or some other
termination criterion is reached.

A more sophisticated algorithm, known as "K-Means", takes advantage of
the fact that it is possible to quickly determine the decrease in energy
caused by moving a point from its current cluster to another. It repeats
the following procedure:

-   For each point, move it to another cluster if that would lower the
    energy. If you move a point, immediately update the cluster centers
    of the two affected clusters.

This procedure is repeated until no points are moved, or some other
termination criterion is reached.

**Note**: the original reference lists the input variable **F** as an
*integer* workspace array. However, **F** is used in the CLUSTR routine
exclusively as a *real* array. Even in single precision, this causes the
routine to compute incorrect results (try it, please!); in double
precision it also causes memory overwrites. The code presented here has
corrected this mistake.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA058** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa058/asa058.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa058/asa058.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa058/asa058.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa058/asa058.md) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa058/asa058.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA113](../../master/asa113/asa113.md), a C++ library which
implements the Banfield and Bassill clustering algorithm using transfers
and swaps.

[ASA136](../../master/asa136/asa136.md), a C++ library which
implements the Hartigan and Wong K-Means clustering algorithm.

[CITIES](../../master/cities/cities.md), a C++ library which contains
various problems associated with a set of "cities" on a map.

[CITIES](../../datasets/cities/cities.md), a dataset directory which
contains sets of data defining groups of cities.

[KMEANS](../../master/kmeans/kmeans.md), a C++ library which contains
several different algorithms for the K-Means problem.

[LAU\_NP](../../f_src/lau_np/lau_np.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
contains heuristic algorithms for the K-center and K-median problems.

[SPAETH](../../f_src/spaeth/spaeth.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
clusters data according to various principles.

[SPAETH](../../datasets/spaeth/spaeth.md), a dataset directory which
contains sets of test data for clustering.

[SPAETH2](../../f_src/spaeth2/spaeth2.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
clusters data according to various principles.

[SPAETH2](../../datasets/spaeth2/spaeth2.md), a dataset collection
which contains sets of test data for clustering.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by David Sparks; C++ version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  John Hartigan, Manchek Wong,\
    Algorithm AS 136: A K-Means Clustering Algorithm,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 28, Number 1, 1979, pages 100-108.
2.  Wendy Martinez, Angel Martinez,\
    Computational Statistics Handbook with MATLAB,\
    Chapman and Hall / CRC, 2002,\
    ISBN: 1-58488-229-8,\
    LC: QA276.4.M272.
3.  David Sparks,\
    Algorithm AS 58: Euclidean Cluster Analysis,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 22, Number 1, 1973, pages 126-130.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa058.cpp](asa058.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa058.hpp](asa058.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa058\_prb.cpp](asa058_prb.cpp), a sample problem.
-   [asa058\_prb\_output.txt](asa058_prb_output.txt), the output file.
-   [points\_100.txt](points_100.txt), 100 2D points, used as a case
    study by the sample problem.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **CLUSTR** clusters a set of data to minimize the within-cluster sum
    of squares.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 03 February 2008.*
