ASA091\
Percentage Points of the Chi-Squared Distribution {#asa091-percentage-points-of-the-chi-squared-distribution align="center"}
=================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA091** is a C++ library which computes the percentage points of the
Chi-Squared probability distribution, by Best and Roberts.

ASA091 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 91. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA091** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa091/asa091.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa091/asa091.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa091/asa091.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa091/asa091.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa091/asa091.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[DCDFLIB](../../f_src/dcdflib/dcdflib.md), a FORTRAN90 library which
evaluates and inverts a number of statistical distributions.

[GSL](../../master/gsl/gsl.md), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating probability distributions.

[NORMAL](../../master/normal/normal.md), a C++ library which samples
the normal distribution.

[PROB](../../f_src/prob/prob.md), a FORTRAN90 library which evaluates
and inverts many probability distibutions.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../master/test_values/test_values.md), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[UNIFORM](../../master/uniform/uniform.md), a C++ library which
samples the uniform distribution.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by Donald Best and DE Roberts; C++ version by
John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Donald Best, DE Roberts,\
    Algorithm AS 91: The Percentage Points of the Chi-Squared
    Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 24, Number 3, 1975, pages 385-390.
2.  William Cody, Kenneth Hillstrom,\
    Chebyshev Approximations for the Natural Logarithm of the Gamma
    Function,\
    Mathematics of Computation,\
    Volume 21, Number 98, April 1967, pages 198-203.
3.  John Hart, Ward Cheney, Charles Lawson, Hans Maehly, Charles
    Mesztenyi, John Rice, Henry Thacher, Christoph Witzgall,\
    Computer Approximations,\
    Wiley, 1968,\
    LC: QA297.C64.
4.  BL Shea,\
    Algorithm AS 239: Chi-squared and Incomplete Gamma Integral,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 37, Number 3, 1988, pages 466-473.
5.  Michael Wichura,\
    Algorithm AS 241: The Percentage Points of the Normal Distribution,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 37, Number 3, 1988, pages 477-484.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa091.cpp](asa091.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa091.hpp](asa091.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa091\_prb.cpp](asa091_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa091\_prb\_output.txt](asa091_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **CHI\_SQUARE\_CDF\_VALUES** returns some values of the Chi-Square
    CDF.
-   **GAMMAD** computes the Incomplete Gamma Integral
-   **PPCHI2** evaluates the percentage points of the Chi-squared PDF.
-   **R8\_NORMAL\_CDF\_INVERSE** inverts the normal CDF.
-   **R8POLY\_VALUE** evaluates a double precision polynomial.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 05 February 2008.*
