ASA159\
Random generation of a table. {#asa159-random-generation-of-a-table. align="center"}
=============================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA159** is a C++ library which constructs a table having given row
and column sums, by Michael Patefield;

ASA159 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 159. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

ASA159 accepts a table shape (the number of rows and columns), and two
vectors, the lists of row and column sums. There may be 0, 1, or many
tables with nonnegative, integral entries that have the given shape and
sums. The routine will report the case if there are no candidates. If
there is at least one candidate, then the routine will choose one,
uniformly over the number of distinct candidates.

For example, suppose M = 2, N = 3, row sum = (/ 6, 5 /) and column sum =
(/ 3, 4, 4 /), then here are two tables that satisfy the constraints:

            1  2  3
            2  2  1
          

and

            3  0  3
            0  4  1
          

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA159** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa159/asa159.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa159/asa159.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa159/asa159.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa159/asa159.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa159/asa159.html).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA144](../../cpp_src/asa144/asa144.html), a C++ library which randomly
generates an RxC contingency table.

[SUBSET](../../cpp_src/subset/subset.html), a C++ library which includes
a routine called **I4MAT\_01\_ROWCOLSUM** which generates a (0,1) matrix
with given row and column sums.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by Michael Patefield; Matlab version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Michael Patefield,\
    Algorithm AS 159: An Efficient Method of Generating RXC Tables with
    Given Row and Column Totals,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 30, Number 1, 1981, pages 91-97.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa159.cpp](asa159.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa159.hpp](asa159.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa159\_prb.cpp](asa159_prb.cpp), a sample problem.
-   [asa159\_prb\_output.txt](asa159_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **I4\_MAX** returns the maximum of two I4's.
-   **I4\_MIN** returns the minimum of two I4's.
-   **I4MAT\_PRINT** prints an I4MAT, with an optional title.
-   **I4MAT\_PRINT\_SOME** prints some of an I4MAT.
-   **I4VEC\_PRINT** prints an I4VEC.
-   **I4VEC\_SUM** sums the entries of an I4VEC.
-   **R8\_UNIFORM\_01** is a unit pseudorandom R8.
-   **RCONT2** constructs a random two-way contingency table with given
    sums.
-   **S\_LEN\_TRIM** returns the length of a string to the last
    nonblank.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 10 March 2009.*
