RANDOM\_OPENMP\
Parallel Random Numbers with OpenMP {#random_openmp-parallel-random-numbers-with-openmp align="center"}
===================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**RANDOM\_OPENMP** is a C++ program which uses random numbers during a
calculation that has been parallelized with OpenMP.

The random numbers are generated by a function which depends on a
user-defined integer called SEED. When multiple OpenMP threads are
involved, each thread should be assigned a different initial value for
SEED, in order that the threads generate distinct streams of random
numbers. This example shows one way that that can be done.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**RANDOM\_OPENMP** is available in [a C
version](../../c_src/random_openmp/random_openmp.html) and [a C++
version](../../cpp_src/random_openmp/random_openmp.html) and [a
FORTRAN77 version](../../f77_src/random_openmp/random_openmp.html) and
[a FORTRAN90 version](../../f_src/random_openmp/random_openmp.html).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[DIJKSTRA\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/dijkstra_openmp/dijkstra_openmp.html),
a C++ program which uses OpenMP to parallelize a simple example of
Dijkstra's minimum distance algorithm for graphs.

[FFT\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/fft_openmp/fft_openmp.html), a C++ program
which demonstrates the computation of a Fast Fourier Transform in
parallel, using OpenMP.

[HEATED\_PLATE\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/heated_plate_openmp/heated_plate_openmp.html),
a C++ program which solves the steady (time independent) heat equation
in a 2D rectangular region, using OpenMP to run in parallel.

[HELLO\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/hello_openmp/hello_openmp.html), a C++
program which prints out "Hello, world!" using the OpenMP parallel
programming environment.

[MULTITASK\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/multitask_openmp/multitask_openmp.html),
a C++ program which demonstrates how to "multitask", that is, to execute
several unrelated and distinct tasks simultaneously, using OpenMP for
parallel execution.

[MXM\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/mxm_openmp/mxm_openmp.html), a C++ program
which computes a dense matrix product C=A\*B, using OpenMP for parallel
execution.

[OPENMP](../../cpp_src/openmp/openmp.html), C++ programs which
illustrate the use of the OpenMP application program interface for
carrying out parallel computations in a shared memory environment.

[OPENMP\_RCC](../../cpp_src/openmp_rcc/openmp_rcc.html), C++ programs
which illustrate how a C program, using OpenMP, can be compiled and run
in batch mode on the FSU High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster
operated by the Research Computing Center (RCC).

[POISSON\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/poisson_openmp/poisson_openmp.html), a
C++ program which computes an approximate solution to the Poisson
equation in a rectangle, using the Jacobi iteration to solve the linear
system, and OpenMP to carry out the Jacobi iteration in parallel.

[QUAD\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/quad_openmp/quad_openmp.html), a C++
program which approximates an integral using a quadrature rule, and
carries out the computation in parallel using OpenMP.

[SATISFY\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/satisfy_openmp/satisfy_openmp.html), a
C++ program which demonstrates, for a particular circuit, an exhaustive
search for solutions of the circuit satisfiability problem, using OpenMP
for parallel execution.

[SCHEDULE\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/schedule_openmp/schedule_openmp.html),
a C++ program which demonstrates the default, static, and dynamic
methods of "scheduling" loop iterations in OpenMP to avoid work
imbalance.

[SGEFA\_OPENMP](../../cpp_src/sgefa_openmp/sgefa_openmp.html), a C++
program which solves a linear system by Gaussian elimination, using
OpenMP.

[UNIFORM](../../cpp_src/uniform/uniform.html), a C++ library which
computes elements of a uniformly distributed pseudorandom sequence.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Peter Arbenz, Wesley Petersen,\
    Introduction to Parallel Computing - A practical guide with examples
    in C,\
    Oxford University Press,\
    ISBN: 0-19-851576-6,\
    LC: QA76.58.P47.
2.  Rohit Chandra, Leonardo Dagum, Dave Kohr, Dror Maydan, Jeff
    McDonald, Ramesh Menon,\
    Parallel Programming in OpenMP,\
    Morgan Kaufmann, 2001,\
    ISBN: 1-55860-671-8,\
    LC: QA76.642.P32.
3.  Barbara Chapman, Gabriele Jost, Ruud vanderPas, David Kuck,\
    Using OpenMP: Portable Shared Memory Parallel Processing,\
    MIT Press, 2007,\
    ISBN13: 978-0262533027,\
    LC: QA76.642.C49.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [random\_openmp.cpp](random_openmp.cpp), the source code.
-   [random\_openmp\_output.txt](random_openmp_output.txt), the output
    file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **MAIN** is the main program for RANDOM\_OPENMP.
-   **MONTE\_CARLO** carries out a Monte Carlo calculation with random
    values.
-   **RANDOM\_VALUE** generates a random value R.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 03 September 2012.*
