ASA076\
Owen's T Function {#asa076-owens-t-function align="center"}
=================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA076** is a C++ library which evaluates Owen's T function, by Young
and Minder.

ASA076 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 76. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA076** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa076/asa076.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa076/asa076.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa076/asa076.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa076/asa076.html) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa076/asa076.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA005](../../cpp_src/asa005/asa005.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral T distribution, and uses Owen's T
function.

[ASA243](../../cpp_src/asa243/asa243.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the CDF of the noncentral T distribution.

[OWENS](../../cpp_src/owens/owens.html), a C++ library which evaluates
Owen's T function.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by JC Young and Christoph Minder; C++ version
by John Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Richard Boys,\
    Remark AS R80: A Remark on Algorithm AS76: An Integral Useful in
    Calculating Noncentral T and Bivariate Normal Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 38, Number 3, 1989, pages 580-582.
2.  Youn-Min Chou,\
    Remark AS R55: A Remark on Algorithm AS76: An Integral Useful in
    Calculating Noncentral T and Bivariate Normal Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 34, Number 1, 1985, pages 100-101.
3.  PW Goedhart, MJW Jansen,\
    Remark AS R89: A Remark on Algorithm AS76: An Integral Useful in
    Calculating Noncentral T and Bivariate Normal Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 41, Number 2, 1992, pages 496-497.
4.  MA Porter, DJ Winstanley,\
    Remark AS R30: A Remark on Algorithm AS76: An Integral Useful in
    Calculating Noncentral T and Bivariate Normal Probabilities,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 28, Number 1, 1979, page 113.
5.  JC Young, Christoph Minder,\
    Algorithm AS 76: An Algorithm Useful in Calculating Non-Central T
    and Bivariate Normal Distributions,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 23, Number 3, 1974, pages 455-457.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa076.cpp](asa076.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa076.hpp](asa076.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa076\_prb.cpp](asa076_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa076\_prb\_output.txt](asa076_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNORM** computes the cumulative density of the standard normal
    distribution.
-   **OWEN\_VALUES** returns some values of Owen's T function.
-   **R8\_ABS** returns the absolute value of an R8.
-   **TFN** calculates the T-function of Owen.
-   **THA** computes Owen's T function.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 20 January 2008.*
