ASA144\
Random generation of a table. {#asa144-random-generation-of-a-table. align="center"}
=============================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA144** is a C++ library which randomly generates an RxC contingency
table, by James Boyett.

ASA144 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 144. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

ASA144 accepts a table shape (the number of rows and columns), and two
vectors, the lists of row and column sums. There may be 0, 1, or many
tables with nonnegative, integral entries that have the given shape and
sums. The program will generate, at random, one of the tables and return
it. Repeated calls to the program will return new random selections.

For example, suppose M = 2, N = 3, row sum = (/ 6, 5 /) and column sum =
(/ 3, 4, 4 /), then here are two tables that satisfy the constraints:

            1  2  3
            2  2  1
          

and

            3  0  3
            0  4  1
          

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA144** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa144/asa144.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa144/asa144.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa144/asa144.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa144/asa144.md) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/asa144/asa144.md).

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA159](../../master/asa159/asa159.md), a C++ library which randomly
generates an RxC contingency table.

[SUBSET](../../master/subset/subset.md), a C++ library which includes
a routine called **IMAT\_01\_ROWCOLSUM** which generates a (0,1) matrix
with given row and column sums.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by James Boyett; C++ version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  James Boyett,\
    Algorithm AS 144: Random R x C Tables with Given Row and Column
    Totals,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 28, Number 3, 1979, pages 329-332.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa144.cpp](asa144.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa144.hpp](asa144.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa144\_prb.cpp](asa144_prb.cpp), a sample problem.
-   [asa144\_prb\_output.txt](asa144_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **I4MAT\_PRINT** prints an integer matrix.
-   **I4MAT\_PRINT\_SOME** prints some of an integer matrix.
-   **I4VEC\_PRINT** prints an integer vector.
-   **R8\_UNIFORM\_01** returns a unit double precision pseudorandom
    number.
-   **RCONT** generates a random two-way table with given marginal
    totals.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 28 January 2008*
