ASA245\
Logarithm of Gamma Function {#asa245-logarithm-of-gamma-function align="center"}
===========================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA245** is a C++ library which evaluates the logarithm of the gamma
function.

ASA245 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 245. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA245** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa245/asa245.html)
and [a C++ version](../../cpp_src/asa245/asa245.html) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa245/asa245.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa245/asa245.html) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa245/asa245.html)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[FN](../../cpp_src/fn/fn.html), a C++ library which approximates
elementary and special functions using Chebyshev polynomials, by Wayne
Fullerton.

[GSL](../../cpp_src/gsl/gsl.html), a C++ library which includes many
routines for evaluating special functions.

[SLATEC](../../f_src/slatec/slatec.html), a FORTRAN90 library which
evaluates many special functions.

[SPECFUN](../../f77_src/specfun/specfun.html), a FORTRAN77 library which
evaluates certain special functions using fitted data.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../cpp_src/test_values/test_values.html), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of distributions.

[TOMS291](../../cpp_src/toms291/toms291.html), a C++ library which
evaluates the logarithm of the Gamma function.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Cornelius Lanczos,\
    A precision approximation of the gamma function,\
    SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis, B,\
    Volume 1, 1964, pages 86-96.
2.  Allan Mcleod,\
    Algorithm AS 245: A Robust and Reliable Algorithm for the Logarithm
    of the Gamma Function,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 38, Number 2, 1989, pages 397-402.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa245.cpp](asa245.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa245.hpp](asa245.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa245\_prb.cpp](asa245_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa245\_prb\_output.txt](asa245_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **ALNGAM** computes the logarithm of the gamma function.
-   **GAMMA\_LOG\_VALUES** returns some values of the Log Gamma
    function.
-   **LNGAMMA** computes Log(Gamma(X)) using a Lanczos approximation.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 15 January 2008.*
