ASA121\
The Trigamma Function {#asa121-the-trigamma-function align="center"}
=====================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**ASA121** is a C++ library which evaluates the trigamma function, by BE
Schneider.

ASA121 is Applied Statistics Algorithm 121. Source code for many Applied
Statistics Algorithms is available through
[STATLIB](http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/apstat).

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**ASA121** is available in [a C version](../../c_src/asa121/asa121.md)
and [a C++ version](../../master/asa121/asa121.md) and [a FORTRAN77
version](../../f77_src/asa121/asa121.md) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/asa121/asa121.md) and [a MATLAB
version.](../../m_src/asa121/asa121.md)

### Related Data and Programs: {#related-data-and-programs align="center"}

[ASA103](../../master/asa103/asa103.md), a C++ library which
evaluates the digamma function.

[TEST\_VALUES](../../master/test_values/test_values.md), a C++
library which contains sample values for a number of special functions.

### Author: {#author align="center"}

Original FORTRAN77 version by BE Schneider; C++ version by John
Burkardt.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  BE Schneider,\
    Algorithm AS 121: Trigamma Function,\
    Applied Statistics,\
    Volume 27, Number 1, 1978, pages 97-99.

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [asa121.cpp](asa121.cpp), the source code.
-   [asa121.hpp](asa121.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [asa121\_prb.cpp](asa121_prb.cpp), a sample calling program.
-   [asa121\_prb\_output.txt](asa121_prb_output.txt), the output file.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **TIMESTAMP** prints out the current YMDHMS date as a timestamp.
-   **TRIGAM** calculates trigamma(x) = d\*\*2 log(gamma(x)) / dx\*\*2
-   **TRIGAMMA\_VALUES** returns some values of the TriGamma function.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../cpp_src.md).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 19 January 2008.*
