LATTICE\_RULE\
Lattice Rules for Multiple Integration {#lattice_rule-lattice-rules-for-multiple-integration align="center"}
======================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**LATTICE\_RULE** is a C++ library which approximates integrals in
multiple dimensions using lattice rules.

The lattice rules are defined on the unit square, or in higher
dimensions, on the unit hypercube.

Lattice rules are more suitable to integrands that are periodic, with
period 1, in all variables. However, there are techniques that may be
used when the integrand does not satisfy this requirement.

The performance of a lattice rule depends heavily on the choice of the
generator vectors. Once the spatial dimension and the number of points
have been chosen, there are techniques for finding a good generator
vector.

The simplest lattice rules are called "rank 1" rules, and use a lattice
generated by multiples of a single generator vector. More elaborate
rules can be generated by using more generator vectors, up to the
maximum, which is the dimension of the space.

### Licensing: {#licensing align="center"}

The computer code and data files described and made available on this
web page are distributed under [the GNU LGPL
license.](../../txt/gnu_lgpl.txt)

### Languages: {#languages align="center"}

**LATTICE\_RULE** is available in [a C++
version](../../cpp_src/lattice_rule/lattice_rule.html) and [a FORTRAN90
version](../../f_src/lattice_rule/lattice_rule.html) and [a MATLAB
version](../../m_src/lattice_rule/lattice_rule.html).

### Related Programs: {#related-programs align="center"}

[FAURE](../../cpp_src/faure/faure.html), a C++ library which computes
elements of a Faure quasirandom sequence.

[GRID](../../cpp_src/grid/grid.html), a C++ library which computes
elements of a grid dataset.

[HALTON](../../cpp_src/halton/halton.html), a C++ library which computes
elements of a Halton quasirandom sequence.

[HAMMERSLEY](../../cpp_src/hammersley/hammersley.html), a C++ library
which computes elements of a Hammersley quasirandom sequence.

[HEX\_GRID](../../cpp_src/hex_grid/hex_grid.html), a C++ library which
computes elements of a hexagonal grid dataset.

[IHS](../../cpp_src/ihs/ihs.html), a C++ library which computes elements
of an improved distributed Latin hypercube dataset.

[LATIN\_CENTER](../../cpp_src/latin_center/latin_center.html), a C++
library which computes elements of a Latin Hypercube dataset, choosing
center points.

[LATIN\_EDGE](../../cpp_src/latin_edge/latin_edge.html), a C++ library
which computes elements of a Latin Hypercube dataset, choosing edge
points.

[LATIN\_RANDOM](../../cpp_src/latin_random/latin_random.html), a C++
library which computes elements of a Latin Hypercube dataset, choosing
points at random.

[LCVT](../../cpp_src/lcvt/lcvt.html), a C++ library which computes a
latinized Centroidal Voronoi Tessellation.

[NIEDERREITER2](../../cpp_src/niederreiter2/niederreiter2.html), a C++
library which computes elements of a Niederreiter quasirandom sequence
with base 2.

[NINT\_EXACTNESS](../../cpp_src/nint_exactness/nint_exactness.html), a
C++ program which measures the polynomial exactness of a
multidimensional quadrature rule.

[NINTLIB](../../cpp_src/nintlib/nintlib.html), a C++ library which
contains routines for numerical estimation of integrals in multiple
dimensions.

[QUADRATURE\_RULES](../../datasets/quadrature_rules/quadrature_rules.html),
a dataset directory which contains sets of files that define quadrature
rules over various 1D intervals or multidimensional hypercubes.

[QUADRULE](../../cpp_src/quadrule/quadrule.html), a C++ library which
defines a number of quadrature rules.

[SOBOL](../../cpp_src/sobol/sobol.html), a C++ library which computes
elements of a Sobol quasirandom sequence.

[STROUD](../../cpp_src/stroud/stroud.html), a C++ library which contains
quadrature rules for a variety of unusual areas, surfaces and volumes in
2D, 3D and N-dimensions.

[TEST\_NINT](../../cpp_src/test_nint/test_nint.html), a C++ library
which defines test functions for multi-dimensional quadrature routines.

[UNIFORM](../../cpp_src/uniform/uniform.html), a C++ library which
computes elements of a uniform pseudorandom sequence.

### Reference: {#reference align="center"}

1.  Seymour Haber,\
    Parameters for Integrating Periodic Functions of Several Variables,\
    Mathematics of Computation,\
    Volume 41, Number 163, July 1983, pages 115-129.
2.  Albert Nijenhuis, Herbert Wilf,\
    Combinatorial Algorithms for Computers and Calculators,\
    Second Edition,\
    Academic Press, 1978,\
    ISBN: 0-12-519260-6,\
    LC: QA164.N54.
3.  Ian Sloan, Stephen Joe,\
    Lattice Methods for Multiple Integration,\
    Oxford University Press, 1994,\
    ISBN: 0198534728,\
    LC: QA311.S56

### Source Code: {#source-code align="center"}

-   [lattice\_rule.cpp](lattice_rule.cpp), the source code.
-   [lattice\_rule.hpp](lattice_rule.hpp), the include file.

### Examples and Tests: {#examples-and-tests align="center"}

-   [lattice\_rule\_prb.cpp](lattice_rule_prb.cpp), a sample calling
    program.
-   [lattice\_rule\_prb\_output.txt](lattice_rule_prb_output.txt), the
    output file.
-   [f21.txt](f21.txt), the 21 points of a Fibonacci lattice for K = 8,
    M = 21.
-   [f21.png](f21.png), a PNG image of a Fibonacci lattice.
-   [f144.txt](f144.txt), the 144 points of a Fibonacci lattice for K =
    12, M = 144.
-   [f144.png](f144.png), a PNG image of a Fibonacci lattice.

### List of Routines: {#list-of-routines align="center"}

-   **E\_01\_2D** is the exact integral of 2d test function \#1.
-   **F\_01\_2D** is the 2D test function \#1.
-   **F2** evaluates a function of a scalar used in defining P2(Q).
-   **F20\_S** evaluates a function of a vector used in defining P2(Q).
-   **FIBONACCI** returns the Fibonacci number of given index.
-   **FIBONACCI\_LATTICE\_B** applies an optimal Fibonacci lattice
    integration rule in 2D.
-   **FIBONACCI\_LATTICE\_Q** applies a Fibonacci lattice integration
    rule in 2D.
-   **FIBONACCI\_LATTICE\_Q\_NODES** returns Fibonacci lattice nodes in
    2D.
-   **FIBONACCI\_LATTICE\_Q1** applies a Fibonacci lattice integration
    rule in 2D.
-   **FIBONACCI\_LATTICE\_Q2** applies a Fibonacci lattice integration
    rule in 2D.
-   **FIBONACCI\_LATTICE\_Q3** applies a Fibonacci lattice integration
    rule in 2D.
-   **FIBONACCI\_LATTICE\_T** applies a symmetric Fibonacci lattice
    integration rule in 2D.
-   **FIND\_Z20** finds the appropriate Z vector to minimize P2(QS).
-   **GRAY\_NEXT** generates the next Gray code by switching one item at
    a time.
-   **I4\_HUGE** returns a "huge" I4.
-   **I4\_MAX** returns the maximum of two I4's.
-   **I4\_MIN** returns the minimum of two I4's.
-   **I4\_POWER** returns the value of I\^J.
-   **I4VEC\_PRINT** prints an I4VEC.
-   **LATTICE** applies a lattice integration rule.
-   **LATTICE\_NP0** applies a lattice integration rule to a nonperiodic
    function.
-   **LATTICE\_NP1** applies a lattice integration rule to a nonperiodic
    function.
-   **LATTICE\_PRINT** prints the points in a lattice rule.
-   **MONTE\_CARLO** applies a Monte Carlo integration rule.
-   **PRIME** returns any of the first PRIME\_MAX prime numbers.
-   **R8\_ABS** returns the absolute value of an R8.
-   **R8\_HUGE** returns a "huge" R8.
-   **R8MAT\_TRANSPOSE\_PRINT** prints an R8MAT, transposed.
-   **R8MAT\_TRANSPOSE\_PRINT\_SOME** prints some of an R8MAT,
    transposed.
-   **R8VEC\_UNIFORM\_01** returns a unit pseudorandom R8VEC.
-   **S\_LEN\_TRIM** returns the length of a string to the last
    nonblank.
-   **TIMESTAMP** prints the current YMDHMS date as a time stamp.
-   **TUPLE\_NEXT** computes the next element of a tuple space.

You can go up one level to [the C++ source codes](../fcpp_src.html).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 23 November 2008.*
